
--- [U1] ---
"Applejack genuinely mastered the machine gun, built solidarity. When the reality of the war hits, she feels like a liar because she drummed up hope against what felt like unwinable odds. Her imposter syndrome isn't truly warranted, but she feels it because of the asymmetric material reality of the changelings' military strength."

What parts of this old note go into what character note tracks, across psychology, backstory and narrative macroarchitecture, or should it go in a track to a link to a plot point? But this happens immediately before the start of the story but isn't dramatized but revealed and apparent later

--- [U3] ---
"Faust's original Applejack was the star of the town (Applebuck Season, The Last Roundup, Leap of Faith where everypony trusts her endorsement). Later Applejack didn't have initiative and was a background pony. This manifests as Applejack's imposter syndrome at the start of the story and subsequent need to be at a machine gun to feel like she's contributing in chapter 1. Applejack was trust into a season 1-tier spotlight as a general, but she has internalized her late-season passivity and background-ness after feeling small and helpless at Ain Trotgourait behind Twilight's shield when her Honesty was worthless against warlords with no moral compass. (She actually played a part in breaking Fizzlepop's worldview, but doesn't realize it because it's worthless against all the other warlords who are mindless)"

Here is another dense note. Instead of me asking you to put into track buckets that were designed but not validated yet, I think it's more productive if I ask: from first principles, identify what kinds of claims/assertions are being made in this block of text?

The goal of separating notes into tracks is to make it so every track answers a particular kind of claim type about the project in only one cognitive mode, without messiness, because that is how the categorization will actually be effective.

I am in the phase of trying to solidify my note tracks now

--- [U5] ---
Maybe the task forward should not be trying to break up notes into sentences that go here or there, but rather to read my notes and build each track cleanly from scratch?

--- [U7] ---
What are the pros and cons of starting with Applejack who is the main character versus starting with a minor character?

--- [U9] ---
I need a reminder of all the possible claims and tracks and a clear articulation of what the goal of the note track separation is. It's been 2-3 weeks between trying to understand and putting the refactored story planner into a working executable state. Look through all the conversations in this Claude Project "The Lioness of Tall Tale Story Design" and give an overview of the conclusions regarding the tracks.

--- [U11] ---
I later moved away from the hard categories defined in that conversation in favor of making the application configurable so that I could determine the tracks based on data. I'm at that stage now and want insight and analysis on how to move forward. What are the goals now? What information would be helpful?

--- [U13] ---
The code was outdated. I want to upload into the project the complete new architecture but not sure how to do it effectively. Is there a way to link github into the project or should I just upload all the .cs and .xaml files into the project? Can there be a folder or no?

--- [U15] ---
Go ahead.

--- [U17] ---
I put Models.txt and ViewModels.txt in the project memory. Note that I am not thinking about the narrative properties at all yet, only the data. I am not even close to the part of the project about verifying stages or categorizing or building statistics or anywhere near writing prose. I am only interested in organizing existing notes. The application appears ready to take on that task. I have not made much of the configuration of note tracks yet. I have 300,000 words worth of seed data sitting in unset note tracks across 500+ subjects and plot points. I have not put the subjects into subject types either yet because they are also a mix.

--- [U19] ---
[Attached file: GetMarkdownContext.txt]
[Attached file: ModelClasses.txt]
[Attached file: ExamplePart1-Subjects.md]
[Attached file: ExamplePart2-PlotPoints.md]
[Attached file: GetMarkdownContext.txt]

I need to give you much more context into what the nature of the data is. I migrated it from the old architecture. Attached is "ModelClasses.txt" which is the old model classes in EF Core with navigation properties, not to be confused with the new design. Key pain points were that plot point had singular text fields which became dumping grounds, same for the links between plot points and the 4 subject types (Character, Codex Entry, Theme, StoryThread), and those each had one note collection. The notes were scattered, and it was unclear what things should go where. This old story planner was a vehicle for raw idea capture first, organization later (which is now). Once I had a working reasonable application I put that aside and spent 2-3 months expanding the story design and putting data wherever because that was what I actually wanted to do, not perfect a program.

I have uploaded the method used to turn the model classes into markdown in "GetMarkdownContext.txt". Then I have included in example part 1 and part 2 what some of the data looks like in the markdown (I am not putting the full 300,000 words as that would lead to RAG which gives worse results).

I migrated the data from the old models to the new models. For the text fields on link entities and synopsis on plot point, whenever there was a double new line in the old data, I made that a separate note split in the new model. So now everything is in the notes table, with owner id and owner type correctly referenced to Subjects, Plot Points, or Plot Point Subject Links or Chapters. The data association integrity is there. The subjects are all currently with subject type=unassigned (id = 1) because I want to validate them manually as I go through. It's obvious that Character in the old model will become Character subject type in the new one. But Themes are not straightforward as some stuff belongs elsewhere and those notes may be broken up into cleaner subjects. Story threads are also an arbitrary mismash. Codex Entries need further separation on a clean case by case basis as the existing categories are not rigorous. So there is some structure but not to the level that would be effective moving forward.

Please analyze the existing data in the markdown documents to understand the nature of the text and the claims that needs to be put into tracks to be effective moving forward and set me up for success later. Use the GetMarkdownContext.txt to understand where the data comes from in the old model, and how it was mapped into the new model in unset tracks as of now.

I don't expect quick fixes. I expect this process of organizing the notes is part of the story design expansion and detailing.

--- [U21] ---
After stepping away and reflecting and recalling, I think it's worth reflecting on the full casual chain of how I got to the position I am in today with regard to the story design project of TLTT and where my current 300k words of data comes from, how it is structured and what it contains and why I made it.

This project started in February 2025 as my classic setup of putting notes in a google doc for a story. In November 2025 I discovered that Gemini 2.5 Pro could reason about story logic (but was awful at prose). I had a week long thread rapidly expanding my story plans, and then there was a UI bug and I couldn't access it anymore, so I had to use Google Takeout to recover the raw data. The google doc would not be able to sustain the volume of insights made in those 120-ish prompts so I wanted to make a desktop application to organize it. I thought it would take a weekend but it ended up taking 3 weeks. By December 2025 I had a minimum viable story planner that could hold data. I was not planning on writing prose any time soon. I just needed a reasonable way to dump my data, then copy the full context, paste back into the gemini web app and ask my next question to get more exciting insights about my world building. Some notes are copy and paste from Gemini's output, the parts that made sense. Some notes/text fields are written by me, filtering out what I didn't like and typing out what I did. I put in the system instruction "no prose". Eventually the context grew too large to paste into the text window and I had to upload the document. This led to worse results due to RAG on the consumer app. Eventually I found Google AI Studio where I could be sure the full context was read and further specify more constraints like "no direct address" to make the text more copy and paste-able in some situations. I also used Notebook LM at some point but that had other problems with RAG and not full context. Eventually the AI Studio answers were degrading too.

Then I tried out Claude (you) and found better reasoning results and longer, complete answers, but Claude would not take the full context and truncate it; even if the consumer interface took everything, that would not be good for the usage limits. The Claude usage limits were more honest than Gemini's model of taking larger context but lowering the reasoning and output length to save compute and offer "unlimited" to the whole userbase. So I figured at 300k words this was no longer suitable for pasting the whole thing and I needed to redesign the story planner where the notes were organized for two main purposes: selective context to provide for further questions, and organizing in a way that would eventually help me write prose.

To be clear, prose is still not even on my immediate radar for the past 5 months of story design expansion. I still have around 65 outstanding questions and many more unintegrated notes. My plan before was to get all those questions answered with insights. My pattern of where to put text was as follows: If I knew what plot point in the story/chapter plan an insight sort of belong to, I would put it in the synopsis or the link between that plot point and the subject. If I didn't know yet or the insight was an overarching thing, I put it in notes of a subject. My thinking before was: if the data was in a plot point or link, it was usable to inform prose later. If it's in a note of a subject but not in a plot point, it had to make it into a plot point or link and get marked as "Incorporated". These raw capture of insights led to the mixed, anything goes nature of the notes today. There were a couple times where I had particular ideas for prose outlines, but these would get outdated or invalidated potentially so I stopped that and focused on outstanding worldbuilding questions.

Now the problems I encountered today with this data: it is all sitting in my new, squeaky clean note track separated story planner v2 after a migration I did yesterday. But now I am seeing that this data is "dirty" or so thoroughly mixed. The goal of getting cleaner context export for further analysis cannot accommodate the dirty data and I want total data to go down and duplications resolved instead of more expansion. I thought I could split up the old text into the tracks, but that doesn't seem to be the case because the data is genuinely tightly coupled, I think. The way I wrote those notes seems to be so tightly coupled, which was a product of its entry method and not necessarily wrong but served a different purpose of raw capture convenience not analysis and prose informing suitability. It seems I don't want to keep the "unclean" data in the new story planner at all. The new story planner v2 is basically a whole new architecture. The parallel was me making the story planner v2 code. I had immense friction dealing with stripping out the old v1 concepts and then getting compiliation errors so new stuff wasn't testable until I wiped out old v1 things. It seems in place manipulation isn't what I want. Is this a real problem others have with codebases?

I want to be able to see progress. I can't see progress in stuff moving from unset to the tracks if I can't delete from unset or cleanly move fragments over into separate tracks.

Therefore my new radical idea is to keep all the old data in the v1 story planner. Have both v1 and v2 open. Read the data in v1 and type what belongs in v2 in tracks. This way the v1 data is viewable in the form it lived in, which has association with how I entered it in, and the old text will not be a part of the v2 data to interfere with the new way. Use v1's isincorporated to track entry into v2. Please give an analysis of the whole causal chain and the pros and cons and nuances of this new idea for data migration.

--- [U23] ---
In addition to the 65 v1 notes that need further research, there are also hidden questions/obligations in plot point synopses and link payloads which didn't have the boolean flag to make it apparent. I also have more notes in Google Keep which I captured and didn't put into v1 yet, and also probably 10+ conversations with Claude or Gemini on topics about the story design with new insights which I had while writing the code for v2 in parallel. I don't have delusions that project scope will stop growing. I don't have any financial deadlines or obligations regarding the project. The utility value is in the process.

I believe v2 can still have new questions added, and that is what the Flagged note state and Flag Reason are for. There will be more things added as I compile the research data into the world bible compilation. Story Planner v1 and v2 are both a world bible (or attempted to be one) and a project management tool; tracks are labeled by their purpose. Does this make sense?

--- [U25] ---
[Attached file: All Applejack data.md]

Here is data from v1 of Applejack notes and all plot points that link to her. Give a renewed analysis of what claim types are present in the v1 data which should become tracks in v2, why, with examples, and the display question and reasoning included. Give tracks for Character, for PlotPoint, and for PlotPointSubjectLink when the subject type is character. Not only layers 1-5 but also the authorial and meta textual and anything else

--- [U27] ---
I'm thinking the thematic function needs to go into the theme subject entity that embodies that proposition, not in Applejack's subject entity
When you say scene design doesn't exist in v1 do you mean the field was not part of the architecture but the content is there, scattered across other fields? Or is the content missing and I don't have any because I didn't do it yet?
I don't think authorial directives (project management directives, obligations) should be a track. They should be put into FlagReason on a note in a track, and that note goes to the Flagged state which is separate from Unset and Confirmed.
I noticed "ArcTrajectory" is about "how does this character change", but there's another planning layer which is about notes that plan out how the objective backstory and psychology are revealed. It seems like how it's revealed and how they change are orthogonal tracks, distinct enough they deserve separate tracks. For example, Applejack's core wound about her parents leaving the farm (built on top of canon, so there is stuff to Applejack I made for TLTT that FiM fans will discover) and also her trauma from Mount Aris are reveals, not changes/development. Are there examples in my v1 notes of this kind of planning? If not included, then they might live in other subjects, like the Mount Aris one or the one about AJ's parents, which is why this v1 compilation into v2 is necessary.

Indeed, I found this in Applejack's Parents: "Pre-war Applejack looks at the SAA leaderboard and sees Skyfall-style "Rat Race" capitalism. She believes her parents turned the sacred, spiritual act of farming into a soulless quota system. She views the mashing of apples and pears into identical cans as the erasure of their identity (a loss of Terroir). This is why she rejects the factory, returns to the farm, and earns her Cutie Mark in defiance of "industry."
Her parents need a lot of industrial growth and recruitment of ponies to solve world hunger, then focus on getting profit margins to pay shipping to the GR" that was in a note. And then in a link to a plot point: "Comet Shine says he knew Applejack's parents
Applejack frowns and says she'd rather not talk about them
Comet Shine stumbles (he thought that would help them connect)
Applejack's fundamental belief is that industry creates distance, and distance creates corruption. When she sells an apple she bucked herself, she looks the buyer in the eye. She knows the fruit is good. The transaction is moral. In her parents' factory, you can't tell.
Flim & Flam validated it all. It's too easy to flip a switch and make bad product.
She views efficiency as soullessness. This is also why when Henri says the Herzlanders have no soul, it resonates with Applejack immensely."

Then in the entry for The Battle of Mount Aris: "Applejack does not leave Mount Aris naive; she leaves feeling profoundly emasculated and small. She learns that the world is cruel, but more importantly, she learns that her innate Earth Pony virtues are insufficient to stop that cruelty. After the Aquileian and Republican volunteers decimate the horde and Twilight rescues Fizzlepop, Applejack returns to Sweet Apple Acres. She seeks grounding in the dirt, attempting to cope with her feelings of powerlessness through hard, physical labor. She does not accompany Twilight to Canterlot to present Fizzlepop to Celestia.
Twilight goes to Canterlot and is brutally berated by Celestia. Celestia weaponizes Twilight’s trauma, framing Twilight’s frontline intervention not as heroism, but as a reckless flirtation with the exact supremacist violence that created Nightmare Moon.
Because Applejack is not in Canterlot, she does not see Celestia crush Twilight’s spirit. Applejack only sees the results: Twilight abruptly shuts down the School of Friendship, relocates to Ain Trotgourait with Pinkie to perform top-down charity, and eventually locks herself in an underground lab to build magical supply organization/teleportation networks.
Applejack logically—but incorrectly—concludes that Twilight has become a cold, bureaucratic extension of Celestia’s Stagnation. The "old nerd" who loved grassroots friendship is dead, replaced by a "new nerd" who treats the world like a supply chain. They drift apart because Applejack views Twilight’s new methodology as soulless, while Twilight is too consumed by her "Reactive Atlas Complex" to explain that she is actually hiding from Celestia's geopolitical terror.
Because Applejack felt useless behind Twilight's shield in 1006, she is highly motivated to never feel useless again. When Luna eventually offers her the General's star, Applejack refuses to be a mere figurehead. She volunteers for basic training and masters the machine gun because she believes that tactical competence will prevent a repeat of Mount Aris. Applejack enters 1011 ALB believing she understands the cruelty of the world. She thinks, "I saw the warlords. I know it gets ugly. But this time, I have a gun, and I have the solidarity of my troops." The Imposter Syndrome triggers because Chrysalis’s Heer is not the Storm King’s horde. The Storm King was a disorganized, performative bully. Trimmel’s Panzer divisions are a mechanized, industrialized superpower executing Auftragstaktik. Applejack’s breakdown in Chapter 1 occurs because she realizes her preparation was fundamentally asymmetrical to the threat. She trained for a gritty infantry defense; the Changelings arrived with a macroeconomic war machine. She feels like a "Fake General" because she brought a machine gun to a logistics war. Her hard-earned, grassroots solidarity is instantly vaporized by Blitz-Essenz and artillery."

I'm not sure if the arc trajectory and backstory/psychology reveal plan are zero focalization or scene architecture.


```
public enum CognitiveMode
{
    ZeroFocalization,      // User as in-universe historian/physicist
    SceneArchitecture,     // User as director
    Metatextual,           // User to future self, treating the project as a project rather than in-universe
    Analogical,            // User connecting the project world to the real world
    LinguisticExecution,   // User as writer
}
```


Here are my existing cognitive modes. I think SceneArchitecture is too narrow. It should be about the text not being story content (layers 1, 2, 3, 5) but it's specifically layer 4/syuzhet and it's notes about designing the reader experience. I need a better term for this second enum value.
Also I'm using Metatextual as specifically talking about the text as a project, hence meta. This is separate from analogical which is about real life inspiration. But analogies aren't just information flowing from real life history informing characters/story design, it's also characters/story design acting as a social commentary on present day real life, which is the opposite direction. Do both of these belong in the same cognitive mode? Are they separate tracks? Actually maybe the social commentary has to go in thematic proposition subject's track and not other subjects?

--- [U29] ---
For characters, Now I'm thinking there are 3 axes: psychology vs events, pre-story vs in-story, and story-wide scope (goes in character) vs scene-level scope (goes in link). There are 8 tracks that span the character and link. Then the analogy track exists outside these 8. Is this too simple or is it precise? Is nuance lost?

I think Reader Perception Design goes only on plot point, not on character. I would be reading the NarrativeDesign note tracks from all the subjects that connect to the plot point, then put in notes for the reader perception design (Note that I am nowhere near this stage of the project yet)

--- [U31] ---
I wrote out the scenarios and our current understanding on a piece of paper, and now I will type out what my tentative conclusions are and need an analysis:

Character means the track belongs on the subject and means the track when read as a whole applies story-wide (individual notes may refer to a part of the story but as a whole they form a story-wide set of data).
Link means the track belongs on a PlotPointSubjectLink connecting character to a plot point. The track can have multiple notes and they all apply specifically to that plot point and the character, not the whole story.

Track 1 (Psychology + Pre-Story + Character) = Psychological Architecture. ZF (zero focalization). What is true of who the character is and why, before the main story starts.
Track 2 (Events + pre-story + Character) = Objective Backstory, with dates, what happened to them before the story starts
Track 3 (Psychology + in-story + Character) = The objective plan for how their psychology changes in-story, aka character development, written as a set of notes in the track that together represent a hollistic collection. This would be where the AJ note about "from Vanhoover to the Town hall she has imposter syndrome, from Town hall to trimmel..." would go.
Track 4 (Events + in-story + Character) = a high level plan of their actions in the story.
Maybe it is possible that track 3 and track 4 are singletons, which forces conciseness and data sanitation, acknowledging they are sparse and shouldn't have much data because the real data lives in the plot points. But filling them in means I thought about it.
Tracks 1-4 are all zero focalization, an omniscient voice. The text is describing in-universe things.

Track 5 (Psychology + pre-story + Link) = Reveal plan of their pre-story psychology - how this scene reveals stuff, how it fits into the plan. This is syuzhet/Narrative Design, not zero focalization.
Track 6 (Events + pre-story + Link) = Reveal plan of their pre-story events, their objective backstory, through the scenes. This is syuzhet.

Track 7 (Psychology + in-story + Link) = How they are changing in this scene. Stated as an omniscient fact, so it is zero focalization.
Track 8 (Events + in-story + Link) = Objective report of what they are doing in this scene. Zero focalization.

The singleton of Track 3 which is in the subject should equal the sum of Track 7 across all of that subject's links. Same for Track 4 and Track 8.

That comes back to tracks 5 and 6. They are reveal plans. I suppose they need summary equivalents in the character, which would 9 and 10 (more precisely it's akin to like a 1.5 and 2.5)
I'm actually not sure what should be singletons or not now. Maybe it's possible the 5-8 are all singletons and they have to add up to the summary in the subject. But they could actually be tracks with multiple notes too... But the singleton or multiple note track is a separate discussion to the shape of the tracks. It seems there are 10 total tracks. There are 4 in the link, 4 in the subject which are checked against the sum of the links, and 2 in the subject that are completely independent of the plot point/story/delivery and are just world bible. I believe zero focalization/fabula vs syuzhet/narrative design is not enough nuance to capture the cognitive modes. 1.5, 2.5, 3 and 4 are all about story-wide. 1.5 is the story-wide reveal plan of psychology stated, the whole scope of it, in one track or one singleton. The sum of track 5 has to be checked against it; it is the specific reveals in each chapter. 1.5, the holistic reveal plan of the psychology, is distinct from track 1, which IS the psychology, which is distinct from track 5 which is the psychology reveal for a specific plot point only. Track 2 is the objective backstory, Track/singleton 2.5 is the story-wide reveal plan readable in one place, and track 6 is a portion of the reveal plan of the backstory for that specific plot point (what gets revealed here specifically).

But now I'm wondering if the presence of 1.5 versus 1 means there's actually a fourth axis. Maybe that axis is zero focalization (layers 1-3 and 5) versus syuzhet/narrative design (layer 4). But this means the combo that forms Track 5, read as psychology + pre-story + link + zero focalization is empty, which makes sense because pre-story and link are incompitable in zero focalization since link taking place during the story. Not sure if it's worth going into a 4 axis system or if these 10 tracks cover the full scope of psychology and event related things.

And in addition to all that, there is the allegorical track for Character. There is no allegorical track on the link. Metatextual as in obligations and research directives are on FlagReason, not a note track. Maybe I meant metatextual to mean the 1.5, 2.5, 3 and 4 because the text there is a plan about the story content, not story content itself. The story content is in tracks 1 and 2.

--- [U33] ---
If the underlying data truly has 4 axes, as it appears to be, then there should be, in theory, 16 combinations. Only 10 seem to be meaningful, that's what my instinct says. But I want to audit this.

The 4 axes are:
psychology vs events
pre-story vs in-story
story-wide (Subject) vs scene-specific (Link)
zero focalization/objective assertions vs narrative design/reader experience design

What are the 6 unstated combinations and why are they invalid? Are they actually valid?

The psychology vs events seems to be generalizable across subjects into ontology (layer 1, or layer 3 for characters) vs fabula/backstory.
The 4th axis comes down to whether it is layer 4 syuzhet or ontology/psychology.
So I believe this framework works for codex entries too. For world physics, the psychology is world principles/rules/ontology. For organizations it's binding logic. For technology it's mechanics. For constructed ideas (like Stagnation of Harmony or Harmonic Capitalism) it's the rules of how the abstract system works.
The "events" angle varies slightly but has the same idea. Discovery of the world physics, creation of the system, invention of the tech, formation of the organization. It's historical records.

Outside of the 16, there's the analogical track for subjects. I don't think links need an analogical track. Still uncertain about whether metatexual can be trackless or if there should be a home for obligations and notes to self, perhaps project history too (like I made something obsolete because... XYZ, such as it didn't fit the the hopepunk thesis, so make sure to avoid this trope that was previously in the story). I think I have "metatextual" too connected with the "prospective zero focalization" that was identified earlier, so perhaps it can be renamed to "project management" or project thinking or something else. And I think prospective zero focalization and retrospective zero focalization (or more clear terms) should live in the headers of the tracks so that I know what I'm doing with them and the distinction.

--- [U35] ---
What if I call it "Garden Notes"? I am not gardening the prose but I am gardening the story design. These are notes that had to revised out from the gardening process; they are worth preserving as reminders because they must have served a point at one point and that information is valuable. Or maybe something more clever like "Wilted" as the track name? Stuff that won't get into the final product, but are there for a reason.

Some of the codex entries won't have tracks that characters do. Seems like characters are maximal. Each kind can be reasoned about independently.

Characters and what were formally codex entries cover layers 1, 3, and 4 of the materialist historicist worldbuilding engine in their ontology and layer 2 in their events side. For layer 5, the themes, it seems like we need a slightly different approach.

Thematic proposition must be an argument where the reader arrives at the conclusion via deposited evidence, not told the conclusion. Let's see how the 4 axes that were established for characters and codex entries may or may not apply for themes.

There is not Ontology/Psychology vs Events/History (what kind of content); it is a single category of note - what the conclusion is (what I am designing towards). So this first one isn't an axis.
Pre-story vs In-story also doesn't apply because arguments are universal.
Story-wide vs Scene specific seems to have some weight.
Zero focalization/objective vs narrative design/subjective reader experience. I think this is the axis of What the desired conclusion is vs the evidence for the reader to experience (evidence in favor of my conclusion and demonstrations that the other conclusion failed, not from authorial fiat but from the materialist historicist rigor). This appears to be the only axis? Therefore themes only have 1 track for the conclusion, 1 track for social commentary on the present (allegorical), and on the subject link it's one track for evidence deposited, with an enum for whether it is evidence in support or evidence against the antithesis. But there seems to be a need for a design plan that is story-wide too. The evidence deposited is narrative design; it's a specification of what I want the reader to experience without telling them but showing them, and this is important for informing scene level design. I guess the theme subject should have a track that holds the sum of the link scene designs. Maybe the conclusion or the argument isn't a track at all, or it's a singleton. Thus we have a singleton for the proposition, a track for story-wide design, and a track for reader experience on the link to plot points.

Themes are cross cutting subjects. I guess different subjects used for the same purpose belong in the same note track because it's the same question being answered.

Story Threads as they existed in v1 are very in question now. It's possible all their content can slot into this 16-track (well, 14 since two are impossible) structure. One Story Thread "the true actions and motivations of Chrysalis" was literally the reveal plan and backstory for her, which obviously now lives as a Chrysalis character subject note track. One of them was "Perception of Changelings" which was a plan about depicting the changelings as monsters at first (the grimdark expectation), then exposed as poseurs (social commentary on neo fascists, surface level alignment of elite contempt), then sympathized as victims and fellow citizens (the hopepunk thesis). A prominent story thread is TwiJack, tracking their romantic relationship. I'm not sure what to do with this, perhaps this is a genuine story thread outside of characters. But there's also overlap. "Twilight Breaking from Celestia" should be put in Twilight's character subject and links under the new 14 track framework.
It could be that Story Threads are cross cutters like themes. I'm really not sure what should go in here. Perhaps we should start reasoning about what is not covered by Characters, the 4 codex entries (both are world content in general) and Thematic Propositions. It doesn't need to be called "Story Threads" if that thinking genuinely goes to the character and codex entry subject tracks.

My v1 story threads and themes are quite disorganized and arbitrary. Let's start with first principles reasoning, then after, I'll try to provide examples of v1 content and we'll see where they can go

--- [U37] ---
I'm thinking "Equestrian Republic", interestingly, can be a codex entry just like "Stagnation of Harmony" and "Harmonic Capitalism" and "Changeling Hives", as an abstract concept. It is created in story. The backstory won't have any entries. This is similar to how in a different conversation, it was suggested that "Cute Intelligence Agency" can be an organization-type subject even though it is created in story.

The reasoning is: this story planner is also eventually a planner for the prequel-sequels. Minette and Chrysalis are going to eventually have full on stories which need plot points. This means "in-story" for them actually overlaps with "pre-story"/backstory in the TLTT framing. If that is the case, should it be generalized to TLTT, the main story? This adds another layer to the pre-story vs in-story axis that I'm having trouble wrapping my head around. The story planner should definitely be geared for TLTT first and foremost. But even so, I'm wondering if there is something fundamental in the data representation that should be brought to light now.

Here's what I'm thinking about Minette. She is the one who lived and made a lot of Aquileian history. In TLTT, reveal plan notes are about how the reader, through Applejack and Twilight, learn Minette's backstory. This is definitely valid. In her story, she's the one narrating, and the backstory is being made. But this is really interesting because Applejack in the main story also withholds her backstory from the reader until reveal time in TLTT. Any prequel-sequel still starts in media res at some point and has a reveal plan for things.

For Coltbert Reforms, in TLTT, it would have a big reveal plan. For Minette's prequel, Coltbert Reforms is made from scratch within that timeline, so in her framing, the backstory is empty, just like Equestrian Republic is empty in TLTT framing. Thus Coltbert Reforms has the same objective backstory regardless of what story is being planned. When the backstory is empty, reveal plan is empty. Also the macro reveal plan at story-wide scope is not actually story wide, it is project wide. Some of the very specific details of the Coltbert Reforms are not mentioned in TLTT at all, or just alluded to, and only fully dramatized in Minette's story. So the high level plan at the Abstract System track would have notes about what goes in Minette's story and what goes into TLTT; this is the plan I have to make before moving onto scene design because I need to put in decisions about what is too much for TLTT that would make it too dense and should stay in Minette's story, versus what is essential to TLTT.

For Minette's character subject entity itself, it would have backstory prior to TLTT. The plot point links to her in TLTT have reveal plan track and objective track. The plot point links to plot points in her story don't have reveal plan, because it is the objective building of it.

Maybe this is where the "impossible" tracks are actually possible! Because the current pre-story vs in-story axis is specific to TLTT. If the plot point is for a prequel, it is actually possible for a pre-story zero focalization note to a link to exist for psychology or events. Now I'm trying to understand what are the fundamentals of the pre-story vs in-story axis, perhaps they need different names. The data points to take into account are the fact that some subjects are birthed within TLTT, and for subjects before TLTT, in their prequels it's the equivalent, where they are being birthed there. Some insights seems on the tip of my tongue but I can't articulate it. Give a deep analysis

--- [U39] ---
So Prior-Established and Narrative-Emergent as an axis ONLY applies to PlotPointSubjectLinks, because the Subject is a project-wide plan? Prior-Established, link, psychology, narrative design exists, it's the reveal plan. Prior-established, link, psychology, zero focalization does not exist because there is no truth being established now. Narrative-emergent, link, psychology, zero focalization exists, because the event is happening. Narrative-emergent, link, psychology, narrative design ALSO exists, it is gap design and structural irony work. Seems like events does not have narrative design for narrative emergent because there's no gap or irony between events and reader experience like there is a gap for psychology/ontology/binding logic and reader experience.

This prior-established vs narrative-emergent only exists in the links. Subjects do NOT have this axis. Their entries for the plan still have to equal the sum of links, across all stories. The subject plan tracks shouldn't be singletons anymore; they should have one entry per relevant planned narrative. Read all together, it forms the entire picture across the project. Looking at one entry, it is the sum of one story which can be compared against in a scan.

Link tracks aren't story specific, they are scene specific, which is even more precise. I think having the track be project-wide in the subject, with notes within the track being narrative-specific makes sense. Possibly there can be a boolean in note track definition for this kind of track design, like how there is a boolean for tracks that have world date. Only those show that world date field on the UI. Same for tracks like this where story should be specified for the note. The notes in track 1 and 2 are totally project wide. Some specific notes in these new tracks are story-wide.

I'm starting to think the chronology track should not be only what happens before TLTT part 1 but it should actually include what happens in TLTT as part of the chronology. But this is duplication of data because it exists on the link? But this means Coltbert Reforms objective history exists in both link track for Minette's story's plot points and the subject's track. This might be overkill for TLTT, putting TLTT events in the objective track. Maybe the way to frame it is: TLTT is chronologically the LAST story in project. Everything else is a prequel. As the last story chronologically (but first to be written), it needs notes for reveal plans and that's what the objective backstory is calibrated for. Also none of the prequels are sequential, they are all parallel, somewhat unrelated, only related to TLTT closely. Well that's not exactly true as most of them have an intersection with Chrysalis and everything is actually interconnected, really. But the idea is, the "objective backstory" should be callibrated to TLTT not just because it is the main story and the first to be written, but also because it takes place last. Why is it last? Because the theme is demonstrated by the end of it. Any sequel would need a new theme. The prequels also sort of argue the themes though, so I guess a sequel could too. But any sequel would not be as interesting as a prequel. I'm not really sure here what other reasoning goes in. Actually, the difference with a sequel is: it doesn't need reveal sequences because it is READ after TLTT. But TLTT is read before Minette's story.

--- [U41] ---
Ok, so Track 8 is primarily in relation with the action plan (track 4) which would now have one note entry per narrative. Track 2 is only informing track 6 (reveal plan) for TLTT, which happens chronologically last but told first. What about in prequels where the payloads have to do with dramatic irony and recontextualization? Also Track 2 does not have to equal the sum of the prequel link track 8s. Not EVERY subject is dramatized, only the ones that deserve one by being compelling enough. So I really think track 2 is categorically disconnected from track 8. Just like how Equestrian Republic has a track 8 in TLTT (it's being built, objectively) and has an empty track 2, because it doesn't exist before TLTT.

Track 2 is the vehicle for revelations.

What about when something dramatized in a prequel plot point recontextualizes the track 1 of a subject, enhancing the reader's understanding of what they read in TLTT? Does this fit into a track that exists out of the 16 possible combinations? I guess the recontextualization is the *how*. There aren't reveal plans in the syuzhet/narrative design for track 6. I think this is where the narrative design of how this extra detail enhances/recontextualizes something from TLTT lives. It is reader experience design! So the reveal plan becomes a recontextualization plan. These are both reader experience designs.

--- [U43] ---
Please give a full overview of all 16 tracks (and whether they exist or not)

--- [U45] ---
What popular works operate on this kind of framework if any? I must gotten these principles implicitly from somewhere. These aren't made up, they exist in my raw notes

--- [U47] ---
Do other works have this "main story plus prequels" setup where the main story is read first but chronologically last? Where could my spirit of revelation in onion layers in main story then recontextualization and dramatic irony in the prequel come from?

--- [U49] ---
Actually I haven't consumed most of these things. Only Star wars but I'm not they invested. I think Rogue One is my favorite. Also City Hunter and Itaewon Class. I have not watched One Piece or Breaking Bad. Haven't actually read the Lord of the Rings or Game of thrones. Maybe there's more of an effect of converging in first principles. The fanfics I regularly read don't actually utilize this structure either.

--- [U51] ---
Actually I haven't consumed most of these things. Only Star wars but I'm not they invested. I think Rogue One is my favorite. Also City Hunter and Itaewon Class. I have not watched One Piece or Breaking Bad. Haven't actually read the Lord of the Rings or Game of thrones. Maybe there's more of an effect of converging in first principles. The fanfics I regularly read don't actually utilize this structure either. I guess not the typical romance or adventure fanfics I read in Pokemon or MLP, but the two EaW fics I read, The Princess and the Kaiser, and Pax Chrysalia, have this structure. And I want to do better than them by writing a hopepunk reading of EaW instead of the cynical one. These two start after the Changelings have occupied Equestria. How it happened is revealed over time. For me, I'm starting with the war in equestria but how Chrysalis and many others became who they are is what I'm designing how to reveal.

--- [U53] ---
I think some of what I called "Story Threads" in v1 is equivalent to things that are narrative-emergent in TLTT. Now the v2 framework can accommodate them. This reflects an asymmetry in v1's data model: the narrative emergent stuff for prequels was in the character or codex entry notes, which is prior existing in TLTT. I remember I was putting notes for plot outlines and syuzhet delivery for Minette's prequel story in her character entry because they weren't plot points in tltt. The narrative emergent stuff in TLTT like Equestrian Republic went in a story thread with a goal trajectory. Now the new v2 way of thinking says goal trajectory/arc equally applies to prior established subjects, and syuzhet narrative design equally applies to prior established subjects which appear in a prequel.

This still doesn't cover TwiJack which is a cross cutting thread, but things like Establishing the Equestrian Republic and Cute Intelligence Agency clearly become subjects that happen to have rich narrative emergent tracks in TLTT plot points and an empty prior backstory

--- [U55] ---
One more clarification on my process of getting here. After the initial week of Gemini expansion of my world building, data loss and recovery via Google takeout, my plan was a barebones application (actually I tried to do it as a web app first with blazor) where there were only two entities: Chapters and Story Threads. I imagined a "plot point" which was just a title would belong to one chapter and possibly 0-many threads. Then I would display everything in parallel tracks.

Once blazor failed (I was learning it from first principles with Gemini to make a fanfiction website but it was a category mismatch for a story planner) I switched to WPF (what I use at work). Then when trying to design from ground up, I got the concepts of notes, characters, payload fields, codex entries, themes, enums.

So "Story Threads" was originally a catch all for ANY reader question that went across chapters, which is what I wanted to design for. NOW, we've established that all subjects have such a thing, all characters, codex entries and themes have story wide (indeed, project wide) arcs; that is what makes them a subject in the project and not a single plot point. Therefore story thread needs to be for only such things they don't fit in a subject. Hence TwiJack as the premier example. It is an arc of their romance across many chapters; not just how they get together( they happens quick) but what it means for the rest of the story, because my romance writing principles dictate that the romance is tightly coupled with the main plot and theme. This is a response to City Hunter and Itaewon Class romance arcs slightly falling apart near their endings.

It kind of seems like story threads would not have the ontology/psychology part of the content axis but does have events. These events can even be prior established though most is narrative emergent; TwiJack has a history before TLTT. And it's both zero focalization and syuzhet narrative design. There is project wide scope and scene scope. But perhaps one could also argue that other things could have an ontology equivalent. Organization as a codex entry with binding logic as its ontology kind of represents that. So in a way, TwiJack as a relationship kind of mirrors organization, with a scale of two characters. It would be bureaucratic to name it that. But either way, all these things go into the subject table in a unified data structure which is the point of v2's design. I may want to make a "generic" subject type which doesn't have focused questions but has the maximal track configuration. Things can live there if they really don't fit. If I recognize the pattern repeated, I can make it a new subject type, audit which tracks apply, articulate the track question and explanation for that subject type, and see if it generalizes to other story concepts

--- [U57] ---
I think having a relationship as a subject type makes sense, but it's not just a relationship, it's specifically about when it involves a POV character, because the way I design these romance arcs is that they are tightly coupled, ironclad to the main thematic argument. 

TwiJack isn't the only example in the project although it's the one for the main story. Minette and Réni in their prequel story is another. 

Applejack's Parents if I give them a story may or may not qualify. Or perhaps it's the same mechanic because their decision to become industrialists is because the farm feud was in conflict with their love.

Henri and Fleur can also qualify which is interesting because I have design notes about how they are not romantic committed but it's like friends with benefits but healthy. So I'm wondering if this subject type covers more than just romance? What about Trimmel and Chrysalis? Fleur and Coltbert? These are like mentor and follower. But perhaps these applies where both characters are affected; it can't be one externally reacting to another. Trimmel looks up to Chrysalis but Chrysalis is unmoved by Trimmel.

--- [U59] ---
What are possible ways to visualize 4 binary axes in 2d? Punnett squares? Game theory? Something from dld?

This is reasoning about and classifying the 16 possible track types from the 4 binary axes

--- [U61] ---
So it seems like the K map is for abstract Boolean expression simplification, not for preserving semantic meaning? Thus the nested punnett square is better? 

The left and right outer split definitely is subject vs link, but I'm not sure whether the second outer axis should be ontology vs events or if it should be fabula/zero focalization vs syuzhet/narrative design. What are the implications of either choice? It seems like the outer axes make it harder to do direct comparison from adjacency but good for drawing parallels across the two worlds. It's hard to wrap my head around the pros and cons of each approach clearly 

It seems like whether the split happens on the outer vs the inner has different implications for date interpretation

--- [U62] ---
So it seems like the K map is for abstract Boolean expression simplification, not for preserving semantic meaning? Thus the nested punnett square is better? 

The left and right outer split definitely is subject vs link, but I'm not sure whether the second outer axis should be ontology vs events or if it should be fabula/zero focalization vs syuzhet/narrative design. What are the implications of either choice? It seems like the outer axes make it harder to do direct comparison from adjacency but good for drawing parallels across the two worlds. It's hard to wrap my head around the pros and cons of each approach clearly 

It seems like whether the split happens on the outer vs the inner has different implications for data interpretation of the differences of that axis. Like whether it's more important to see difference within that axis (put axis in inner square) or if it's better for the axis to be fixed because the other axis variation is more meaningful side by side (put axis in outer square)

--- [U63] ---
So it seems like the K map is for abstract Boolean expression simplification, not for preserving semantic meaning? Thus the nested punnett square is better? 

The left and right outer split definitely is subject vs link, but I'm not sure whether the second outer axis should be ontology vs events or if it should be fabula/zero focalization vs syuzhet/narrative design. What are the implications of either choice? It seems like the outer axes make it harder to do direct comparison from adjacency but good for drawing parallels across the two worlds. It's hard to wrap my head around the pros and cons of each approach clearly 

It seems like whether the split happens on the outer vs the inner has different implications for data interpretation of the differences of that axis. Like whether it's more important to see difference within that axis (put axis in inner square) or if it's better for the axis to be fixed because the other axis variation is more meaningful side by side (put axis in outer square)

--- [U66] ---
Let's not assume subject and link are outer. I'm curious about all possible setups. Actually I'd wager they are all helpful in different context, maybe.

How many ways are there to arrange the 4 axes in a nested punnett square (this seems to be both a combination and permutation question?) and are all the configurations helpful in some way or are some just inferior?

--- [U68] ---
Now the million dollar question about this framework is whether this setup of 4 axes each with two values is "suitably exhaustive" or if there are more possible tracks to consider within the combinatorics. Allegorical sits completely separate and so does Garden Notes so things that can be separate are not what I'm looking for. I'm wondering if any of the current axes have more than two meaningful values or not, and whether there are any other meaningful axes that could warrant thought.

--- [U70] ---
How do the potential 16 track types from the 4 axes compare to this original document outlining the different modes and functions of the story planner? Are they incompatible or is there a synthesis that is possible and there is overlap, that they are different angles of the same thing?

--- [U72] ---
I'm still not completely concrete on what each of the potential 16 tracks mean and whether they lead to a meaningful question for a particular subject type. It seems like some subject types won't have some tracks. Give an analysis of this plan to move forward and potential pitfalls:

I am going to put in all 16 tracks titled by their axis values and then try to sort/rearticulate all my notes about Applejack. If by the end of that, one of the tracks is empty it probably means that track doesn't apply and there is probably a reason for it. Hopefully my Applejack notes have enough material that whatever type of track that can exist already does in the notes and hopefully the 4 axes are suitably exhaustive (which the analysis above greenlighted). This is because for some of the combinations I am not able to articulate the exact question or explanation/purpose.

Every axis should have a single question to force focus, plus an explanation that speaks to what the contents of the track will be used for in the story planning process, right?

The excel sheet mentioned single claims or assertion types, is this still applicable?

--- [U74] ---
The problem is we thought some tracks were deferred to other areas but that doesn't seem to be the case after realigning or axing "story thread". I now believe all 16 tracks can possibly hold meaning, but sometimes two tracks can collapse into one if the axis that makes them differ doesn't apply to the subject and the context of the other three axes. But it's hard to know without having data. I'm not sure if static analysis of first principles can do it; please give an analysis of this

--- [U76] ---
I drew out a nested punnett square where the two outer axes are ontology vs events and prior established vs narrative emergent. The inner axes are zero focalization vs narrative design and project wide vs scene specific. This is because the inner ones can inform each other and build on each other, so they should be close. The outer ones, their content is more independent. Psychology and events are different data points, even though events drive psychology and ontology drives events. The Prior Established content and Narrative Emergent content are different content.

Give an analysis of whether this nested punnett square configuration is the best one for determining track questions and explanations/uses, or not

--- [U78] ---
From now on, no more referring to tracks by numbers or letter plus number, because it's too hard to parse and figure out what track that is. All tracks need to be referred to by their 4 axes values in the following order with plus signs:
O or E
PE or NE
S or L
ZF or ND

Now let me walk through the first analysis for characters, the O+PE quadrant.
O+PE+S+ZF is the classic, most obvious track. This is the character's established psychology, who they are as a character, at the start of the main story.
Moving one cell over to O+PE+S+ND, I believe it is something like: What is the plan for how the reader should learn the character's truth and why? It would start out with what a reader would assume based on tropes and first impressions and then outline a plan of the design for how that character is revealed.
The "impossible" combination of O+PE+L+ZF needs to be rethought. I believe the question here is: What truth is being revealed about who they are in this scene? This is objective, and the sum of all these links across the story should accumulate into the full psychology. We were previously putting this "what is revealed" in O+PE+L+ND, I think because the reveal informed narrative design and reader experience. But that's where the distinction comes in. "What truth is being revealed" is objective. "How should the reader feel about the reveal? How does their understanding change after learning the new truth? What gets recontextualized from before; what is the reader thinking about?" This IS what we are designing for in the reader's feelings. In O+PE+L, we are talking about what is being revealed about their established self in a specific scene. What is being revealed is the ZF portion; how the reader should feel about it is the ND portion.

I feel like there is this really complex interplay where in certain combos of the first two axes, the second two axes have swapped orders of what informs what in terms of intuitiveness.

For tracks on L, I believe that "prior established" and "narrative emergent" suddenly flip when the link is to a plot point of a prequel-sequel which is read after the main story. In this case, the narrative emergent stuff is the stuff happening chronlogically earlier. The "prior established" is what the reader already knows happens latter. Thus the L+ND cell acts as dramatic irony for the prequel (notes here talk about what the reader would recall as a truth they hold which the character doesn't) while L+ND in the main story is about revelation (notes here talk about what the reader's new truth makes them feel differently and reevaluate their current opinions)

--- [U80] ---
The insight that PE+ZF and NE+ZF refers to chronological framing while  PE+ND and NE+ND refer to epistemological framing is fascinating. I also noticed that S+ZF and E+ZF tends to mean objective truth while S+ND and E+ND is about a plan. I'm now wondering if it would be effective to actually go through all 16 two value possibilities and state what the resulting 4 quadrants have in common, because that framing changes based on certain axis value combinations. Does this mean the axes are NOT orthogonal, but their meaning is codependent/tightly coupled? That seems obvious, actually. It seems I've been trying to treat them as independent like vector algebra when really we are not talking numbers but semantic meaning, and semantics are tightly coupled (well I guess LLM training is about vectorizing semantics in such a high dimensional space that they become independent, but that doesn't apply for the scale of human narrative design).

It may also be possible that PE and NE are not accurate, and maybe this axis is about the gap between reader state and truth instead. The reader could know less than the truth (revelation), the reader could be learning the truth simultaneously with the character (this is narrative emergent?) or the reader could know more than the character (dramatic irony, from main story knowledge when reading prequel, or from perceiving something about the character that they can't see in themselves yet, which is the classic AJ at the machine gun in a hiding place example). But that also seems to be the ZF vs ND axis instead.

--- [U82] ---
I pasted in a new hypothesis. Please analyze fully and answer all questions contained within.

--- [U84] ---
The framing of PE vs NE is still not correct. Some of the PE content IS dramatized directly in a prequel. What makes it important is that it exists as truth chronologically before the reader encounters it?
Where are for NE, the truth is formed simultaneously with the reader encountering it for the first time.

"exists independently of the story's dramatized events" is the ZF world. The dramatized events plan for the reader is the ND world.

Both PE and NE exist independently of the dramatized prose that the reader encounters. In PE it happened before the reader's first encounter with TLTT, their entry point in the chronological timeline. It can STILL be dramatized later with an ND spec in a prequel. Or if it's not important enough it is merely stated or explained in TLTT (or a prequel). It seems like a piece of content can be BOTH PE and NE. Chrysalis's psychology is PE that gets revealed, crashing against the reader's cartoon villain or evil Nazi dictator expectations, and also NE that is dramatized in her prequel. Minette has PE in TLTT that reveals her life story, NE in TLTT where she changes after learning from AJ and the war, and more NE where the changes that led to her PE spec are dramatized in her prequel. The Equestrian Republic has NE from being established in TLTT. It does NOT have any PE. A world law like The Charitostatic Effect has O+PE+ZF on how it works objectively. I think since the objetlaw of how it works can't change there is no O+NE+ZF or O+NE+ND. There is O+PE+ND which is how it the understanding of the law evolves, to characters and readers. So, for something whose truth can't change, there is no O+NE. Its usage and understanding is E+NE+ZF which has entries since NE+ZF means "what this character or thing is doing in this scene (L) or the plan for What they do across the project (S)"

Please redo the analysis on what the PE NE labels can possibly be, what is fundamentally happening, and the Applejack examples, and the intuitive labels/questions for the tracks.

Regarding which tracks are merged:
The possible merges have to do with PE+ND and NE+ND. For PE+S+ND it is the plan for how the reader's understanding of the subject changes, so O and E are combined in the question. For PE+L+ND it is what the reader's change of understanding should be in that scene and what conclusion they should arrive at from it, which requires both O and E. For NE+L+ND it is what the reader should feel about the character's development/change in internal truth (O) It's intertwined with what is happening in the scene (E). NE+S+ND is the interesting case where O and E are disjointed? O+NE+S+ND is a plan for how the reader witnesses changes in the ontology of the subject and what that change in ontology should make the reader feel, what conclusions that that change in ontology should make the reader reach. What conclusion the reader should reach after witnessing that change in ontology. E+NE+S+ND is a requirement list of the events in the story that cause it? Maybe these tracks do merge too, leaving 12? Because events on their own don't deliver anything, it IS telling. When the event tells a change in ontology but the conclusion about the ontology is formed by the reader, that is Showing? I'm starting to think "ZF" as zero focalization is wrong. The narrative design is still written omnisciently? Or I'm confusing ZF with author? I think ZF vs ND also needs clarification on what they truly mean once PE and NE are clarified?

--- [U86] ---
I think the key insight is that PE and NE, whatever they truely are, are additive, not mutually exclusive. They operate in respect to each other as items in a checkbox list, not radio buttons. S vs L are radio buttons - a note is either project wide or for a specific scene. ZF vs ND SHOULD be radio buttons - a note SHOULD either Be truth or reader experience, it should not be both (that's what was unhelpful in the old system). Mixing the two claims is discouraged in v2 but was convenient in v1 for data capture. O vs E is radio buttons in ZF, but they appear to be one and the same in ND, completely coupled.

This is what I'm imagining Chrysalis's PE+S+ND track will contain:
1. Readers are expected to believe at the start that Chrysalis is a cartoon villain from FiM and an evil dictator from EaW and the trope of being a leader of a fascist state leads to the perception of being a "bugnazi".
2. Throughout TLTT, Chrysalis's actual actions and narcissism that I have designed are revealed in onion layers, first through changelings POWs, then through Trimmel, then through Eagleclaw, then through Synovial. By the end of TLTT, the reader should feel they Chrysalis is clearly not a cartoon villain or an irrational dictatorial bugnazi; she is a rational tyranical reformer like Peter the Great or Emperor Meiji.
3. In Chrysalis's prequel, the reader experiences firsthand, through chrysalis's 3rd person limited POV, how and why she became the tyrant that she is in TLTT. She wanted to solve resource scarcity in the hives and was bullied by Herzlander elites while learning how to modernize. By the end of her prequel, readers should feel that individual villains are not what cause injustice; the system they were a part of is the root cause.

Analogy and social commentary leaked into the reader experience design. Is this okay or not? Should they be exorcized into separate tracks? The purpose of the S+ND track is to inform the L+ND track which then informs the plot point. Not sure of if the analogy and social commentary help or hurt that goal or workflow.

Chrysalis's O+NE+S+ZF has to track how her ontology (her psychology) changes. It goes into how her world view changes. E+NE+S+ZF is a summary outline of what is dramatized, which is mostly in service of delivering the changes to the reader. NE+S+NE (both O and E) would then be a plan for what a reader should feel from the changes. Hmm, maybe this is the same as the PE version, as in, the stuff that's dramatized and what it means is already covered by what I outlined? If this is the case, then that means S+ND, the plan for reader experience across the project, covers ALL content possibilities: O+PE (truth reference), E+PE (backstory), O+NE (what truth changes/character development), E+NE (what is planned to be dramatized). In this case, "truth reference" at Project scale is honestly a snapshot. The snapshot I chose is TLTT/main story start because that's meaningful? But in the case of world physics, the truth is truly static and only the discovery (E - events detailing the physics law's study) varies.

PE must be an ontological/psychological snapshot of some sorts. It is neither the start (the start is nothing) or the end (because characters change). Why is a snapshot of main story start helpful and deserving of a track compared to any other snapshot? Because of the ND intending to be revelation?

I need a full analysis of whether ND is unified regarding PE/NE and O/E with the only variable axis being S or L. Or if this causes a loss in nuance and clarity. And I still need to decide on terms for PE or NE

I think World W and Experience Design D are okay labels, though I'm wondering if R for Reader is better or worse.
And maybe in-universe is better for world, thus U? I can't use "Canon" because that confuses with FiM canon or EaW canon.

--- [U89] ---
A correction on Minette: in TLTT chronologically she changes. She has character development after 1011. That's a U fact. But, the change is observed by AJ. When she has changes in her prequel, she is the POV character. But, it cannot be just pov character vs non pov character, as clean as that sounds. That is because AJ is the pov character but her pre 1011 truth about her cutie mark being a rejection of her parents and feeling small at Mount Aris is deliberately hidden from the reader despite AJ being the pov character (through paralipsis) so that the reveal comes at the most important point. Do maybe PE vs NE for R (reader experience) is about whether the change is delivered through FID or through external delivery/being told. For PE on Chrysalis backstory and psychology truth in TLTT, it is all told about Chrysalis; she doesn't appear face to face. For NE on Chrysalis in her prequel, it is shown through FID with the reader inhabiting her. For NE on AJ's changes the reader inhabits her in TLTT. For PE on revealing AJ's backstory and core wound, although AJ is the POV character, during these moments the reader does NOT inhabit her. AJ speaks the past wound to others in dialogue which is how the reader learns it as if it's an external look; they do NOT learn that she felt small at Mount Aris by experiencing her internal thoughts about it through FID. Same for the ration can: the reader doesn't read her thought that it's her parents' can being more effective than traditional farming for war. They see her scrunching at the can. Then she says in dialogue later how her parents are industrialists (actually we are shown her parents alive through Rarity's POV in a chapter that doesn't have AJ in it).

Minette's PE+E backstory is her telling AJ about it after 1011. Minette's NE+E history is the reader feeling it as her in her prequel before 1011 (1011 is the start of TLTT, if that wasn't clear).

But fid is meaningless for non characters, so this can't be the only answer. It's probably still only a subset of the broader first principles.

I think secondary evidence vs primary evidence is getting closer to the heart of PE (secondary) vs NE (primary).

Or, PE and NE are strictly defined by what reader experience they yield? PE yielded evolving reader understanding. NE yielded feelings about the events and ontology changes that are being dramatized. I'm not sure if these are the same or not.

Maybe there's another thing to consider about showing or telling. Reveal sequences are "Telling". Truth is being told to characters and therefore readers. Or the character is discovering a new truth about a world law (like Twilight theorizing a more complete explanation of the charitostatic effect). This is okay to be told because the content isn't the takeaway. But for a character changing their worldview, this shouldn't be told, but rather shown, so the reader doesn't feel like they are being told to change their world view and instead come to the conclusion themselves?

Chrysalis's prequel isn't going to tell the reader to that systems are the root cause. It shows the reader that the economic system is the root cause, not an evil dictator, because the story shows exactly how Chrysalis became an evil dictator because of the system she was fighting. 

AJ's character development arc isn't going to tell the reader "you should be strong and merciful". It is going to show how she went from a "little pony" to a "Lioness" and then to a president who rehabilates opponents who are willing (and not sadistic in bad faith). It shows how being merciful is more powerful than being extractive.

V1 was good enough until it wasn't. I need a framework which won't require another massive refactor of the data before I double the 300k words into 600k or something like that.

--- [U91] ---
I didn't mean to say the universal thematic proposition lives in L+D. I said the evidence for the proposition lives in L+D notes. Which proposition it is evidence for should be tagged. 

I guess I am still not clear on what should go in a S+R track, an L+R track, or a plot point track. But there should be clearly defined boundaries. 

The PE and NE versions seem to have contradictory answers. PE+S+W asserts established truth. PE+S+R looks at that truth and decides reveals. But does it talk about how the reader feels? Hold on, maybe it's PE+L+W that decides what to reveal, not PE+S+R. Actually they kind of are doing the same thing? Or not? Please disambiguate. PE+L+R is definitely about what I am designing for the reader's opinion to change. This seems to me solidly a "showing" mode. I am not telling the reader how to change their opinion; like I am not telling the reader that Chrysalis is not a cartoon villain. I am giving them evidence that she is not a cartoon villain by telling about her past actions. I am not telling them that Applejack thinks industry kills the soul. I am showing it by telling her real cutie mark story.

In the NE+L+R track, I am not telling the reader that being merciful is more effective for economic output than being extractive. I am showing them evidence that being merciful/cooperative produced a stronger war machine than the extractive one. I am not telling the reader that the system produced Chrysalis the tyrant. I am showing how the system led to her choosing to be a tyrant (her Prequel starts with her with a noble goal of ending the hive tribal wars, trying to be nice and harmonic but finding it insulting; it shows how the noble goal became tyranny, not tyranny from cruelty).

Seems like both the L+R tracks should be detailing what I want the reader to conclude without telling them. This then informs the plot point on what needs to be delivered through showing instead of being told, but it didn't speak to how.

--- [U93] ---
Here is what I believe is a better articulation of what PE is: PE is all about subverting reader expectations. The PE+S+R plan starts with reader tropes coming in, then details how events that unfold should affect the reader's opinion of the subject. PE+S+R is one track that covers both O and E.

Whatever is in PE+S+W is specifically any content that, at any point in reading the story in order (TLTT first, prequels after), there is something that is true but the reader doesn't know. That means it must be disclosed to the reader at some point. I arrived at this conclusion through the reasoning of Equestrian Republic which is has no PE. This is because the Equestrian Republic is formed throughout TLTT which is the main story/first story to read. This means there is never any point in the reader's experience where there are truths about the Equestrian Republic that the reader isn't privy to. In the case of the Equestrian Republic, the reader actually sees it coming BEFORE the readers see it coming, and here is how: Applejack, Twilight, and all the other Equestrian ponies who are acting democratically to save the country from Chrysalis are functionally participating in a proto-republic. The reader can perceive this. Applejack and friends CANNOT conceive of this because their truth is that they grew up and live in a benevolent monarchy, a walled garden that didn't need a republic. This is a clear "show don't tell"; none of the Equestrian characters outright say "we are making a republic" and the narrator certainly should never mention "Equestrian Republic" before its formation moment, but the reader was shown the mechanisms. They see it coming. This is dramatic irony for show don't tell. In the scene where all the characters plan out their supply chain to win the war, the E+NE+L+W notes would say "Applejack and the other leaders are running the country without Celestia." The NE+L+R notes would say "The reader should feel that a democratic republic is more effective than a monarchy, even a benevolent one." And this would be tagged as evidence for the thematic proposition "bottom up > top down".

Another prime example of NE is when Rarity makes Applejack a new uniform, but Applejack turns it down and keeps her simple infantry uniform (that is the E+NE+L+W description). The reader should infer that Applejack doesn't want to be a leader; she is only doing it because she has to (The NE+L+R note). Then later, after Applejack talks with Trimmel, who tells her "don't lose the support of the volunteers who followed you" Applejack takes Rarity's uniform, but asks her to swap out the stitched-on title "The Element of Honesty" and replace it with "The Lioness of Tall Tale" which Trimmel said was an insult that Synovial used to call Applejack amongst the changeling officers. The reader infers that Applejack is stepping up to leadership by taking the uniform.

So if NE+L is when the reader knows the full truth of the world because it is built while they are reading, and also covers the case where the reader knows more than the characters, then PE+L is the opposite, where the reader knows less than the truth. NE+S+R is naturally the plan for the character arc/change/development. PE+S+R is the plan for how the reader catches up on the truth, starting with their initial likely trope beliefs then laying out the onion layers of revelation until the reader has been shown (not told) the whole truth that is available in the world bible/(in PE+S+W). PE+S+R starts with initial likely tropes, then goes into TLTT reveals because it's read first, and then the prequel reveals, where the deep dive into the subject that is part of the prequel gives max world truth. TLTT may give the tip of the iceberg but the prequel can give even more. NE+S+W, as the development arc, does NOT follow this same chronological order as PE+S+R. NE+S+W tracks changes, from birth of a character or invention of a thing in world chronology. This is a coherent causal spec, but the order of these notes does not match the order of the links. Readers will read how Minette changes her worldview after encountering Applejack in TLTT before the reader reads how Minette's worldview was created in her prequel. But her worldview creation is stated first, then her eventual change in TLTT comes after. When the reader reads the scenes in Minette's prequel which features her NE worldview formation, the reader knows more than Minette knows in that moment, leading to dramatic irony. An example is: in Minette's backstory, the reader will watch as Minette builds herself up as a prideful artisan who hunts warlords to free commoners from oppression. They will see why she became so prideful, because by not flaunting her merits, she thinks she is prey (because she was born a serf). But the reader will also know from TLTT that her pride and individualism alone failed to make a dent in Chrysalis's machine, and that she learned solidarity from Applejack to cope with her worldview crashing. Therefore the reader will watch Minette become the prideful self that she is at the start of TLTT, will see why she became that way and why it was justified for her circumstances, and yet also hold the truth that her prideful "social armor" failed and was supplanted by solidarity. This SHOWS the reader that there are limits to individual meritocracy and having a savior complex because they know it fails. It also will relate to technocrat readers who think distributing tech to downtrodden areas to improve material conditions is enough to fix the world; the problem is they don't give dignity or purpose to the people. Meanwhile, those same points that are dramatized with NE notes in her prequel were also PE notes that got revealed to the reader earlier in TLTT, because the reader met her near the start of TLTT without knowing her full story yet, thus the reader knows less than Minette at that point, and those links are PE as she tells Applejack her story.

I agree with PE+L+R and NE+L+R being the same unified track because they are the same cognitive mode, and also because I don't think PE and NE can appear in the same scene. That would be two different things happening to the same subject which seems like poor design? Packing too much in and diluting impacts.

So, PE seems to be the Subversion engine. NE seems to be the Dramatic Irony engine. Which makes sense how I honed in on these because those two are my favorite narrative devices from the works that I like. But is it possible that those two labels are tunnel vision, and the tracks do a bit more than just those big two functions? There is more to a story than just subversion, dramatic irony, and evidence for thematic propositions. There's also warm romance good feels, humor, etc. BUT perhaps those things don't need to be preplanned; they emerge from writing. It's the subversion and dramatic irony that I am meticulously planning. I already knew how to write romance and humor without a story planner. I needed the story planner for mapping out subversion and dramatic irony. By kicking out other craft details, it ensures the system is not being overengineered and the prose still has weight and voice? This seems to be a key insight, that the note tracks do not, and should not, be exhaustive of everything that is possible?

Also, I am less familiar with the precise definition of "structural irony". Does this fit in? Is the NE stuff structural and dramatic? Or does it go in the PE camp?

I believe O+PE+S+R and E+PE+S+R get merged into one track, PE+S+R, the plan for how the reader's opinion should change about the subject, starting from tropes, through initial encounter in TLTT, then full reveal in a prequel.
I am wondering if O+NE+S+W (how does the subject's ontology change through the project) and E+NE+S+W (what does the subject do across the project that is dramatized) are separate or should be merged because they are one and the same? Maybe the first is "lessons learned" and the second is "demonstrations"?
O+PE+L+W is what is revealed about the ontology in this scene (that the reader didn't previously know). O+PE+L+R is what the reader should feel after this reveal, what they need to be shown (not told). Their understanding of the subject gets changed, and that difference informs a conclusion. The conclusion they form themself is what I want to show, what I would tell them if I was lecturing, not showing via storytelling.
E+PE+L+W is what is revealed about the character's history in this scene. The E+PE+L+R is the same, because history and psychological truth are both meant for subversion of reader expecations. It definitely becomes just PE+L+R, where O and E are merged. Now I'm wondering if PE+L+W is also a merge? Psychology and history being revealed serve the same purpose. BUT the PE+S+W are separated into O and E, and if the L versions are merged then sum equivalence verification is no longer possible.
Since PE+L+R and NE+L+R are functionally mutually exclusive to a scene (a scene can't subvert and also have the reader know more at the same time, that dilutes the effects), the L+R track, is one track, which covers 4 "unit cells/primatives" (not sure what to call a distinct 4 value combination).

So, the 8 W cells all have their own. There is one L+R track for all. One PE+S+R track. Not sure if O+NE+S+R and E+NE+S+R should be merged or separate. In the end there will be 11 or 12 tracks out of this system.

Give an analysis of these new insights and propose nomenclature. Also point out if there are any insights from previous analyses and conceptions which are missing from this iteration, and if so, whether that exclusion makes sense or not. (For example, FID anchors like how the reader should be shown being excluded makes sense because I decided that goes on the plot point.)

--- [U95] ---
This feels like the clearest articulation yet. Now let's stress test it. Here are some intuitive guidelines I came up with, which may or may not be in contradiction; if so, please explore both the implications of making it false or changing something in the framework to accommodate.
S should always be the sum of L - some of the merges seem to contradict this
R should always be derived by W - if O and E are merged for PE+S+R, then how is it derived from both O+PE+S+R and E+PE+S+R?

Next, the question is, are there any other things that should be tracked besides Subversion, Dramatic Irony, Structural Irony and evidence for thematic propositions that I'm missing? Check the Applejack notes and other knowledge about the project, and also first principles possibilities for me to make a judgement on.

I also still need clear identifiers to replace "PE" and "NE" which seem outdated and what they actually stand for is outdated. PE and NE were incorrect or had tunnel vision. In-story and pre-story also had tunnel vision. PE seems tied to reader epistemological gap to truth? While NE is a bit more broad than just reader knowing more.

I agree that PE and NE can exist in the same scene for different subjects, but probably bad form for the same subject.

I believe in v1, story threads were tracking PE and NE+R subversion arcs and creation arcs. Story Threads were somewhat tied to "goals" although that may be outdated or way to general. It seems like everything with a deliberate plan serves a goal.

I'm also feeling like the causality of S->L seems more productive reversed as L->S in the case of E+NE+S+W and E+NE+L+W. I would imagine the plot first, then constructive and audit the witness arc that forms. Whereas most of the others are top down architecting, the events chain seems gardened? Maybe all are possible to some degrees and this particular example has the highest degree of gardening viability. Actually it seems like a back and forth compromise between the two directions while I set up the story. I often discover new clever things I want to reveal or disclose as I come up with new ideas.

--- [U97] ---
Is NE ONLY the reader knowing more than the character? I'm not so sure this is everything that is happening when the reader is witness to events and changes. I believe NE is kind of like the "default" storytelling, but enforcing "show don't tell" instead of being an omniscient god narrator lecturing the reader. PE is specifically for reader knowing less than the truth, which seems less prominent for most media but actually is probably present at some level in any kind of story. I'm focusing on it so heavily because of in media res and establishing stakes that make the reader care about the character before going into backstory (either told or in prequel) because if I started with just the beginning of time, the reader may find that boring or having no reason to stick to and care for the character.

Can you give an example of a simple children's story that everyone knows and identify what are the NE and PE (if it exists) parts of it? Both the S and the L examples. A simple children's story (which probably tells instead of shows? maybe?) may reveal the part of NE that isn't advanced dramatic irony, and absence or reduction of PE may make sense.

Investment-building seems to make sense. Actually that kind of speaks to what I said above about establishing stakes to make the reader care about the character and their plight/situation. This emerges from NE? But can also apply to PE if the reader learns something that speaks to them. It's all in the L+R umbrella.

So for that specific example, should "Applejack sees Fluttershy trusts her so much that she brought her entire animal sanctuary to an active combat zone" be the E+NE+L+W note, and "the reader should feel the burden of leadership and responsibility, even though it is not stated" is the L+R note? Also maybe "Applejack can't handle the pressure; it eats her up inside" is also part of the E+NE+L+W note. It is the omniscient fact of what is happening to AJ. But this is W, not R. R specifies what the reader feels, the conclusion they get. It is the plot point's job to read "Can't handle the pressure, it eats her up inside" and also "reader should feel burden of leadership" and then use FID to show it, not tell it. Is this a good way to dissect that note? And also shows how v1 was missing important reader design data?

--- [U99] ---
So, NE+L+W seems to be: if I were telling, this is what I would tell. NE+L+R seems to be: if I were telling, this is the conclusion the reader should receive from what I told them. Then the plot point's job is to design the scene so that I don't have to tell the reader; I will show the reader. NE exists on the subject and link, before the plot point design, to enforce the "show don't tell" principle. Witness kind of seems to represent the spirit of "show don't tell enforcement/planning", but I'm wondering if there is anything better.

Then PE is a different layer about reader epistemological gap and expectations subversion, where the subversion, the act of presenting story evidence that clashes with the reader's current opinion (from tropes or earlier hints or misdirections) is where the showing of the thematic proposition happens. It shows the reader why their belief is wrong instead of telling them they are wrong. This is most powerful when the reader can relate with the character. It makes villains and antagonists relatable and rational instead of cartoon villains or "the other".

Misdirection is an interesting insight. I initially planned for the Stagnation of Harmony for 1000 years then decided through rigorous worldbuiliding that it should only be the last 80 years but even the characters believe it was 1000 years until the final reveal during the white peace chapter. But, seems like misdirection is still tied to epistemological gap. It just seems to point that reader epistemological gap is the common demoninator, and both subversion against previous expecations and misdirection (subverting the beliefs of the character, versus subverting the beliefs of the reader) are different ways to make use of the epistemological gap between the reader and the world bible's truth.

Three little pigs seems to prove that what I was calling NE is universal. The story has events about the brick house surviving while the straw and stick houses fell down. It showed how hard work led to safety while being lazy led to danger, and the reader conclusion is that hard work is something to strive for. An adult reader doesn't need the final statement "they learned to work hard" to come to that conclusion, even if it's there for the child. Meanwhile PE as I suspected isn't core to a simple story - the story doesn't explain why the 3rd pig was harder working and doesn't need to. If I added a detail like "the 3rd pig worked hard because he was in the shadow of the two older brothers and wanted to show his mom he was a big boy" that would deliver a message about how struggle breeds strength while being pampered leads to decadance and defeat. So PE is additive and really comes from my adherence to materialist historicism for world building making it an abundantly available option.

Now give a reanalysis on the nomenclature for PE and NE. Both seem to operate on "show evidence, don't tell the reader what to think". NE does it by what's in the words on the page? PE does it by how the words on the page compared to the reader's current beliefs contrast and the conclusion they get from that? Can you also be more precise about "show don't tell"? What are we not telling, what do we want to tell but aren't supposed to, what are we showing, etc. Maybe that will really clarify things

--- [U101] ---
For O+Em+L+W it is specifying changes, the character arc development. The accompanying L+R is how the reader should feel, but we can't tell them, we have to show them. Here, it seems like the change is not told and the meaning is not told. For E+Em+L+W this is what the character is doing, which seems like it can be told. The accompanying L+R is what that action means, which needs to be shown. F for both E+La+L+W and O+La+L+W these are truth being revealed, which seem like they should be told (through dialogue most likely). Then how the reader should feel in the L+D is shown. Are there real differences in what is being told vs shown or how these cells should be used to be most helpful? Should the L+D actually be separate tracks so that the display question can be more precise about what goes in here and is it a different cognitive mode to arrive at what goes there? Give a big picture overview analysis

--- [U103] ---
Some tracks can be telling. Others should be specifications for showing. This is a very distinct cognitive mode.

La+L+R seems to not actually require much execution on the plot point side. The reader is going it. That's the beauty and what makes it different.

E+En+L+W can be told, O+En+L+W must be shown, their R versions must be shown. Is there a common labelling thread here regarding what the plot point needs to do with this info? Three tiers: tell it, figure out how to show, and maybe not do anything but let the thing speak for itself? Not sure, need clarity on what a plot point would actually do with this info, or more specifically what the author should do with it (future me) when reading the L tracks and coming up with plot point. What is the most productive way to do the plot point and what are the goals, really? Should the display questions on the L tracks for subjects specify how the plot point designer should use them? Please give clarity on what the plot point needs to do to execute the show don't tell for each distinct scenario.

Also wondering if L+R needs the full four tracks or just two, one for En and one for La. And also if this new precision warrants better labels for Latent and Enacted or if they still hold.

--- [U105] ---
Even if the content of the note track scenes the same fact, reader experience, should the talks still be different due to having different prose methodology or directives to make the reader experience it? Or not? That's the core of the question about different tracks or not for all 4 possible L+R. Is the L+W content has 4 tracks. Is the content differentiate enough that different prose techniques are needed to make the L+R spec happen? All the L+R is about what should the reader conclude/feel without being told. But the org to achieving that in the plot point design seems to depend on the W content that is driving that reader conclusion.

Maybe it's the same for O+La content (psychology reveal, like Chrysalis isn't a cartoon villain but a CEO, or Minette doesn't kill tyrants to be nice and liberate the serfs, she kills tyrants to feed her pride) and E+La content (Chrysalis sponsored Equestrian industry for 30 years, historical fact, or Minette was oppressed as a child) but O+En content which can't be told (psychology change must be inferred from behavior and the events that unfold/the character's choices to act which are dramatized instead of stated so the reader doesn't feel lectured at) seems different from E+En content which IS part of the scene basically (it's the events that are dramatized)

Instead of fussing around with more nomenclature, I think we first need to specify what the named values of the axis are supposed to do. Where are they most helpful? What do I want the label to achieve? Go through why the other axes labels are the way they are.

I don't think Told and Shown can be used as labels because both La and En use both at various levels. Told and Shown need to be part of the cognitive mode description or helper for the track as instructions to the author. Consider "E+Shown+L+W notes: "These are the events occurring that I can state."" There's an immediate contradiction between the label Shown and "I can state the event".

--- [U109] ---
I believe S and L are mutually exclusive because it's project wide organization versus scene level planning. The mutual exclusion is due to the planner implementation.

W and R is mutually exclusive as a self imposed discipline principle. I want to separate omniscient author planning from the conclusions the reader should experience.

Together, those two axes are orthogonal.

Then, at the W level, O and E are orthogonal across the other 4. Then special thinking on case by case basis is required for the R level.

My question about La+L+R was about whether the reader's belief that is part of the clash should be in that track (not in the prose) alongside the reader's conclusion. The E+Em+L+R track had just the reader's conclusion because the W track held the event. The La+L+R needs the conclusion and the prior opinion, because the prior opinion is in the reader's head, not the La+L+W which is the fact bring disclosed. This isn't a violation of a framework (which is no longer strict and orthogonal anyway) but a comment about what should go into the track question for the architect and plot point instructions for the director/writer.

Now I see why Gemini 2.5 Pro and Claude are capable of being developmental editors that can spit out inspiration. In my v1 notes, and the Google docs that came back that, a lot of the meaning and nuance requires inference because I wrote them as just facts without spelling out what the reader should feel. That's why ChatGPT 3.5 from November 2022 would fail or reach for the most common tropes in the training data but the new models give something helpful?

--- [U111] ---
So the AI can audit the design or prose against the started R reader experience targets. I still feel even a powerful reasoning model can't generate prose that will work well to the level I want. Maybe it could write Three Little Pigs but not a story to the level I want. Is this because the plot point and prose requires a lot of personal deliberation and inference to come up with what goes on the page?

With all this in mind, what note tracks should go on the plot point? Remember that prose will be written by a human and also it seems most of the refactored notes in tracks need human articulation too

Just give first pass suggestions and why, to get me thinking about it

--- [U113] ---
[Attached file: character reader perception gap.txt]
[Attached file: Organizing a multi-story fabula for selective syuzhet.txt]

Now that we have mostly nailed down the 14 track structure for Character and Character Links, and a tentative 5 tracks for plot point focused tightly on what should go on the page, please read these two attached text files which contain the original conversations where I tried to come up with a way to organize my notes. "Organizing a multi-story fabula for selective syuzhet" was the first engagedment, followed by "character reader perception gap". Of all the things established in those conversations, compare to the framework devised now. Give a detailed report of the whole journey it took to reach this framework through those two conversations and this one.

Here is a starting point of what I feel about the journey and some context: When I started, I went in thinking I would get the design and hard code it, then organize my data. Then I decided I didn't understand all the nuances because I didn't know about the gaps and such and was trying to understand third person limited without experience, so I went with a heavily configurable story planner v2 so I could test with my data. Then I started trying to create the tracks using my data after migration and got stuck which led to this conversation. Now after iterating a lot I have come to something doesn't miss nuance and I understand it. It came out with probably more tracks than the earlier conversations envisioned. I want to know if the principles from those earlier conversations are represented now.

--- [U115] ---
It seems like C2 left me confused and unwilling to hardcode it into story planner v2 because it was mixing the La and En and it was being overly specific about gap specification, like tunnel vision. It seems like "in their head" vs "on the page" is the key to unlocking the ambiguity and arbitrariness into something concrete and actionable that I can trust as usable and accurate and not tunnel vision.

To clarify, there are 4 subject-scope W tracks and 4 link-scope W tracks. 3 R tracks on subject-scope and 3 R tracks on link-scope. Then there are the allegorical and garden note tracks (2 more on subject-scope). So there are 9 note tracks on character, 7 on character plot point link (although not all will appear on the same link instance). The plot point has 5 tracks. The plot point can connect to subjects that aren't characters; they are not part of the character analysis.

Character is only a subject type. The other subject types share the underlying data structure but have their own note track configuration. Plot Point can have links to any subject type.

I believe "story thread" should be retired as a concept. The L+R covers it. V1 story threads were things that had no La, only Emergent within TLTT.

Themes were planned to be subjects, but now I think they are their own entity type and L+R notes can reference a theme to be tagged as evidence for that theme. This leaves only what was originally Characters and Codex Entries as Subjects.

I need to understand what are the rules for determining the total content in a plot point and when a plot point needs to be split up.

Also to clarify, it's only been one month since the first conversation.

I pasted in a particular excerpt of C1 about "show don't tell" operating at 5 different scales. I believe I have Scale 1 (thematic propositions) as the theme entity with tags. Scale 2 (character arc) is what O+En+L+W is designed for, with two inference steps. Scale 3 at the scene level is E+En+L+W with one inference step. Scale 4, subtext within the scene, I'm a little murky about. Is this another axis of callibrating what goes on the page outside of FID anchors? Does it have to do with structural or dramatic irony?
Scale 5, the classic "show don't tell" at the sentence and word level seems to be the FID anchors and just in general doing third person limited? Perhaps it's also paralipsis moments where some things are deliberately withheld? Or maybe that goes into subtext, actually?

--- [U120] ---
Actually my intended plan for rarity perceiving Celestia is not for "she is out of touch" to appear on page. Reader is supposed to infer that from observing Celestia through Rarity, where rarity stops pressing. In the next chapter, Rarity and Applejack talk over the radio. In this radio call Rarity says "she is like a statue". So in the first scene with rarity pov it is two inference. "Celestia is hopelessly out of touch" is the misdirection I wanted to seed as the reader's belief. V1 did not distinguish that this was to be off the page which is why you came to a conclusion that my intuition and memory didn't align with. That's what the v2 design is for, I suppose.

Also I can see how LLM can't be effective at generating prose. You know the subject matter is My Little Pony but your example said "AJ's hand" and something about a uniform. Applejack has hooves, not hands. You are capable of following the constraints if i give them but the takes up context and compute, and by the time all constraints are in, one might as well have written it themselves. So it's not about "can or can't replicate" but about comparative advantage, whether the tool is more efficient than the human brain and lived experience. That isn't really talked about with full nuance in political discourse or even technical discourse.

Ok so the whole story planner is only for designing show don't tell for themes via making explicit on the page vs in their head. The prose has to make those theme evidence form in their head, but that's not the only job. The prose also, naturally, needs to be emotionally strong and thrilling narrative to make the story enjoyable. Those are NOT specified in the story planner's highly curated and governed note tracks. Those emerge from prose. My v1 notes often put thinks like that, notes to self on how to make it thrilling or to remind myself what I want. That goes in garden notes or some metatextutal note to self track? So the whole O/E/La/Em is ONLY for rigorous notes connecting subjects to themes? Because themes (or more specifically, making the reader align with an argument) require show don't tell. The whole O/E/La/Em data is for thematic argumentation. The rest of the story planner had other tracks for the rest of storytelling. The thematic argumentation tracks and the other tracks all inform the plot point design and prose. Actually maybe just the R tracks are for thematic argumentation. And the O+W tracks. The E+W is what goes on the page so it's for two things: content plan and informing thematic argumentation.

Also, I should probably retire O and E. O should be H for in their Head. E should be P for on the Page. R for Reader experience (also in their head). Maybe the R should be replaced with T for Theme evidence? Or M for Meaning? "Reader Experience" is kind of the whole L link. What I was calling "Reader Experience" is more like "what's in their head", what I am trying to make them infer. The "reader experience" that I was using before is more specifically and precisely: what I want the reader to infer. Is this precise and exhaustive or only one part of what R was? The one slight caveat is that La+R needed to outline prior beliefs in the reader's head that are going to clash. That's still related to the inference.

--- [U122] ---
On the Latent vs Emergent/Enacted side, Latent required prior knowledge to clash. But actually Emergent content can form the prior knowledge too through misdirection. So they are intertwined. Are they still separate tracks on the L scope or not? I guess they are because it's different mechanisms for inference. Prior knowledge vs new knowledge (either in the page or inferred) equals new inference on theme is the La. For En it is sensory details (and the inference from it) and events equal new inference on theme. Are these truely different or not?

I believe R should be T for Theme specifically because what R was in the old classification was NOT all inference targets. It was only the inference target on themes. Inference target for character psychology (which is a world truth) was in what we were calling O+L+W (either La or En) which we are now calling H+L+W because it's in their head. World truth inferences are not the same as thematic proposition inferences. The world truth inference is the first inference step. The thematic argumentation is the second inference step of this two step process (thematic argumentation is the one inference when events are stated on the page. The distinction is it is always the last step, the end goal). Is this description accurate and most helpful, trumping all past design attempts?

If so, then what was previously the 4 values from orthogonal O vs E and R vs W become the trinary axis of P (page), H (head, intermediate inference of world truth), and T (theme, also in their head). This is for Links with are about "reader experience" informing the plot point. On the Subject level there will needs to be an O vs E separation about history versus what the subject is? (Psychology, binding logic, technology, political rules, world laws)

And also, I am now questioning if allegorical is strictly separate from this all. This whole system for thematic argumentation seems to need allegory? Is it really a different cognitive mode or not? Need to decide based on pros and cons. Remember that character psychology is a reflection of real world human nature. The political systems I've constructed are allegories. The technology in universe are allegories. The World Laws that I made up serve the theme, they kind of are allegories too, although perhaps this is more about themes being universal rather than the magical physics I invented being allegories; they are allegories by true of serving a universal theme?

--- [U124] ---
H in their head:
intermediate world truth inference — what the reader must first conclude about the subject itself before they can derive the theme.
Maybe it should not be H but instead WI: world inference. H is WI+T, both are in their head. Any other terms that could work?
Does every single Plot Point Subject Link need a note in T? My v1 notes sometimes didn't have it, but I'm not sure if it's because it's meant to have it and was inferred or incomplete or if there can be links without a T. On one hand I said this whole track system is about theme delivery enforcement. On the other hand it's not exhaustive. So is empty T a directive to think harder about it or cut? I suppose if every link must have T, the T doesn't have to be max states existential pondering every time, it can be simple or subtle or just small supporting evidence? If little things are allowed or even common then perhaps that clearly makes an empty T a signal to cut or rethink because it means the plot point out the subject of the thing on the page is padding without weight? I guess I also have to remember that the content on the links is not exhaustive of the prose either; the stuff like humor and warmth sit side by side. Those don't belong on a link with a subject because the subject is about tracking theme arguments across the project.
Now I'm starting to think allegory should not go in the link notes for T because that could cause leakage into the plot point? Which would be telling the allegory? If I make the allegory too obvious because the allegory is there? Should the L+T note be pure universal thematic proposition, not including the intended allegory? Or does the allegory help? Or does this depend on how I would actually write? Or would that induce a writing style?

--- [U126] ---
"Subject links are only created when a subject is doing thematic work" seems like an ironclad design principle that has been discovered, or it was there but finally articulated. This seems to complement something I was already doing in V1: character plot point link was not done for every scene the character is in, only when something about them was delivering something meaningful. When Characters and Themes were both subject entities that had to link to plot points, I would end up copying text or restating it between the two links. Now theme evidence is a track on the character link.

I forgot what the deal was with metatextual. Did this term become obsolete and separated into allegorical and garden notes (project notes tracking the gardening process of putting together the story design)? Are these only S-scope or also L-scope? Why or why not?

--- [U128] ---
I think I'm out of holes to poke, which is good. Please synthesize all the latest insights, point out all red herrings that felt good at the time but were supplanted and why, and crystallize a first pass suggestion on the system.

I think what would be good is a table where the rows are the tracks (across subject, link, and plot point) and the columns are the display questions (for me when I am populating the track) and the usage directives (for me when I am reading the track as input to the next thing).

Also specify the articulated, precise purpose of each component of the v2 story planner as was deliberated and concluded.

--- [U130] ---
I would like a grand table that has first pass attempts for the display question and usage directive for every subject type. Also give each track a name in the leftmost column. Put the letter combination with plus signs in parentheses under the track name. Don't use the letters in the display questions or usage directives anymore. Also don't include an example because that will lead to overfitting. Stick to first principles.

--- [U132] ---
How do I get started with interpreting the v1 notes to begin populating v2? Give some methodology recommendations. The task ahead feels arduous. How would I determine a path forward?

--- [U134] ---
I'm not doing any writing at all though. I'm still expanding the material.

--- [U136] ---
The 300k words of content in v1 needs to be sorted and inserted into v2 appropriately so that v2 can format and feed in everything as context. If I'm adding to v2 but using v1 for context my new stuff won't be reasoned on.

--- [U138] ---
I think the notes need to be written in my author to self voice. And remember I only use Gemini for inspiration, not answers.

--- [U140] ---
Okay, so there are two radically different approaches? One is to read individual v1 mixed notes and classify them out break up into their constituent tracks. The other is to read the v1 notes and then synthesize the tracks independently using one cognitive mode for writing? Please give a thorough holistic comparative overview of the pros and cons of each and if there are other approaches and nuances

--- [U142] ---
The thing I am most worried about is losing insights

--- [U144] ---
One thing I'm noticing is how the mixed notes in v1 are good enough for AI which can reason about the mixed assertions with brute force reasoning. By compressing the insights into packed mixed statements with subtext, it saves tokens. But they don't help me as a writer, only me as a brute force planner expanding ideas. Give an analysis of this insight and how it would inform the the task ahead. Also note that there will still be more expansion to come.

--- [U146] ---
I'm now thinking instead of one display question and one usage directive and then another field for a general "explanation, why does this track exist" I need to establish that there are distinct modes of using the story planner v2, and the tracks need to have different Display Text according to the mode, and also configurable write allowance or readonly.

The modes I'm envisioning are:
Expansion Mode - Links are not shown, only the subject. Intended to expand the history or ontology and plans. Display questions for what to go into what track
Application Mode - apply the existing subject lore to plot point links. The lore and plans are read only and their display text switches to usage, how to use them for the link. The link tracks have display questions that state what should go into the track.
Audit Mode - Most tracks are read only, except for the subject tracks that are meant to be built retroactively from the links like the witness arc. The display text for all the tracks become what needs to be audited - whether the sum of the links adds up to the subject wide track contents or not, for example
Scene Designer Mode - links and the plot point are visible. Links are readonly, plot point tracks editable. Display Text for link tracks is usage, display text for plot point tracks is display questions

Give an analysis, suggest if the modes should be merged, if any modes are missing, and suggest nomenclature for the modes if there are alternatives

--- [U148] ---
Expansion Mode, Linking Mode, Audit Mode, and Scene Design Mode are only for the Common Window which can display one thing on the left and one thing on the right.
In Expansion Mode, the Subject tracks take up the whole window. In Linking Mode, it's Subject on Left, one selected link on the right with the link selector in the middle.
But now I'm thinking I need a different kind of view for Audit and Scene Design. Scene Design requires looking at all links simultaneously, so maybe it needs a scroll bar, and the tracks can be visually compressed because it should only show Confirmed notes, not the Unset or Flagged tracks. Audit also needs a scrollbar to view links continuously.

Theme Review is a separate window that shows all the notes across subjects for the theme. I'm imagining Arc Review to be synonymous with Audit.

But this workflow assumes pure architecting with no gardening. In practice, I have notes for scene outlines. They may not be deserved to be Confirmed until Scene Design mode where they must be checked against the link notes for on the page, world inference, and theme, but those notes need to be enterable before that stage.

--- [U150] ---
You need to consider the huge amount of content that has already been written for plot points. Some, or even most, should be migrated to appropriate subject tracks and plot point subject link tracks, but still there is a vast amount of provisional blueprints. I pasted in some examples. Please dissect the nature of these texts, particularly in synopsis fields as the link fields are probably already destined to go into link tracks, but could also go into subject tracks if it was misplaced. Synopsis fields almost certainly have link track stuff, and event subject track stuff, but there is probably text that belongs to plot point tracks. I need a home for these plot point related stuff before going through the rigorous workflow of expansion -> linking -> audit for subjects and links.

--- [U152] ---
I think I need a Gardener Mode which uses the common window, displays the display questions for plot point tracks, and allows entry into unset and flagged, but not Confirmed. The links can also be clicked one by one and the subject link tracks are allowed to get new data, only in Unset and Flagged. This mirrors Expansion Mode and Linking Mode which the two together is basically what an Architect (as opposed to Gardener) does. The reality is I do both approaches in my v1. The gardening is just on the plot point synopsis level, not prose level. And perhaps moving to Confirmed is only allowed in Audit Mode for Subject and Link tracks? For plot point tracks, moving to Confirmed is only allowed in Scene Design mode? So the plot point in Scene Design mode has a scrolling view of confirmed notes. Plot point in Gardener Mode has the one link click, full note tracks and sections with unset (write)/flagged (write)/confirmed (read only).
Does this mean Expansion Mode and Linking Mode are the same? No, because they require different Display Text depending on the mode. So maybe Gardener Mode on plot point needs to be split as well? With different display questions on the links? Or maybe not due to the nature of gardening. Would this mean both the plot point tracks and link tracks have their entry question in gardener mode, while in scene design mode the plot point tracks have their display entry question and the links have their usage directive?
"She felt like she was losing her soul and becoming evil" actually seems like the perfect candidate of a statement that is BOTH a L+WI+En note on the machine gun scene from earlier AND a L+La+T note on the current scene about the reader's current opinion of Applejack. The earlier dramatization put that seed into the reader's existing understanding of Applejack. The accompanying note on how the new info updates their belief and the contrast of "I figured Applejack thinks closing the conscience and firing the machine gun with no regard for empathy is how to win the war" and "Applejack now thinks that's wrong" delivers evidence for the theme that conscience is stronger than extraction. Or wait, is this actually an L+La+P note because Applejack verbally says to Twilight this statement about feeling like she was losing her soul? No, AJ wouldn't phrase it like that? I'm not sure what I was going for. Maybe that is implied. But does this go into character change or character revelation against reader prior belief? Or both? I guess this is why I need to be precise about the different display text in different modes?

--- [U154] ---
I don't think Gardener Mode display questions should be simplified. They need to be tight and rigorous to prevent the mixed-mode "ontological promiscuity" of the new notes being entered. But maybe they are still different questions compared to Linking Mode and Scene Design Mode.

"What should the reader independently infer about this subject's internal state from the behavioral evidence in this scene?" is exactly the kind of content I want in that link track, even in Unset. "What's happening with this subject here, and what does it mean?" invites imprecision that will have to be revised anyway. I guess if I want a quick capture it should go in a separate, undisciplined author's notes track.

--- [U156] ---
Correction: Subject tracks are not visible at all in Gardener Mode. Gardener Mode is only plot point tracks on the right side, a link selector in the middle, and the selected plot point subject link on the left. Gardener Mode centers on a plot point and its links, no project-wide content for the subject. That would cause cognitive mixing.

Linking Mode has subject tracks on the left, link selector in the middle, and selected plot point subject link on the right. Subject project-wide tracks are read only.

Also we dissected a single sentence and determined its subtext contained content for 3 tracks. Perhaps the better workflow for data "migration" is:
Step 1 - write the subject/plot point/link from memory. Just refer to v1 to know where a link should go, what subject to make, what plot point to make.
Step 2 - read each v1 mixed note, and decide if it is covered across all the tracks/claims the mixed note applies to. If something was missing, add it. Then mark that note in v1 as Incorporated and it doesn't need to be looked at again.

This beats trying to dissect note by note, and it also beats starting from scratch.

--- [U158] ---
I'm thinking the existing 12 tracks work for Characters but they don't always generalize well to the other subject types. I'm thinking the methodology for determining the tracks, given that this whole track system is for thematic proposition evidence from subjects, is to start with what kind of ways the subject can serve as evidence for thematic propositions.

In the case of characters, it is from seeing behaviors/actions/FID on the page, inferring character development from it (which is a reflection of human nature and must be shown, not told), and then inferring the theme/meaning from it (the character's development serves as evidence of the thematic proposition, for example, that industry/accelerants aren't good or bad, it accelerates the wielder's moral alignment. Or that bottom up distributed power is not only morally preferable but structurally more effective than top down power.)

This means of delivering themes, through character development, seems to be the most understood way, and it is compressed into the generic advice "show, don't tell". It's possible that most mass market media only uses this type (if they are even going for themes at all, as a step above just generic action thriller or sensory impact like what I guess the Michael Bay stereotype is; I don't know whether Michael Bay himself did actually care about some form of theme beneath the spectacle, although it wouldn't surprise me if he actually did have that sort of depth beneath the stereotypes if he was successful).

Three Little Pigs, the simple children's story, does kind of use the character development engine. It shows the lazy pigs were in danger and the hardworking pig was empowered to defeat the wolf. The children's version tells the reader "they learned the importance of hard work" while a showing version would probably be something like: "and the first and second pig from then on helped the third pig make his brick house even more sturdy" which the reader can infer that the first and second pig changed their value system to include hardwork instead of playing all day, which serves as evidence for the theme that hard work has inherent value over laziness, or something along those lines.

I believe Lauren Faust is the one who took storytelling and theme delivery beyond the typical mass market ceiling, and is where my instincts for the "Latent track" for characters comes from. Faust's Friendship is Magic is not just operating on character development, I believe it also operates on updating the audience's prior expectations. This is especially prominent in A Dog and Pony Show for Rarity (she isn't helpless or needs saving, she can assert sovereignty), Suited for Success for Rarity (she isn't only obsessed with status, she wants to make the best dresses for her friends), Dragonshy for Fluttershy (she isn't completely helpless, she finds courage when her friends are in danger), Sonic Rainboom for Rainbow Dash (she isn't fearless, she has insecurity and also puts friends above glory) and the list goes on. This is fundamentally about what's on the page/screen or inferred from it which corrects reader/audience expectations, and the process of correction generates the evidence for the thematic propositions (there is no wrong way to be a girl, individuality is more valuable than conformity, organic friendship is a powerful/magical force). Friendship is Magic was explicitly built by Faust to make something that trancends the stereotypes of G1-G3 toy commercials and in general, stereotypes of what young girls want and what they are capable of. This additional layer of "reader prior expectation clash" is one of many reasons why Friendship is Magic is such a popular and meaningful show to such a wide audience, I think.

Now, moving beyond Characters for the other subject types, I believe the "reader prior expectation clash" applies universally as an way to deliver evidence for thematic propositions (make the reader form the evidence in their head). For characters, the standard way was character development. If mass media only teaches and utilizes character development as the most understood and recognizable one, then the other subject types are already beyond the standard, in the way the Faust inspired prior expectation clash is beyond the standard. (I suppose pedigreed written fiction or very impactful visual media does go beyond just the standard character development.) Many of these other subject types' prominence is specific to my chosen genre of a hopepunk geopolitical epic. That could be why guides don't exist and clean parallels aren't so clean, but now I'm thinking the first principles from the character development example can be reasoned about and applied.

I'll go in order to what I think is most mainstream to what I think is approaching more niche.

For "Abstract System" or "Political System", and Technology, these are things that characters created/built. I think how the system or tech is shown in action on the page can directly do 1 inference as evidence for a thematic proposition. It can also do a 2 step inference where the 1st is world inference about "how the thing works" (before that is disclosed on the page) and also "why did the creators make this system/tech the way it is? What was its purpose? What do people use it for?" and that also can serve propositions. Besides shown in action, history can also be disclosed about how it was created, which the reader can then infer why it was created if not stated on the page. Political systems should probably be inferred instead of told because they reflect human nature. Magical technology can be stated because it doesn't have direct allegories; in this case, the inference is actually how it applies to real life but that doesn't have to be designed; reader can make their own connections to real life based on the universal thematic proposition that is being evidenced. So tech and created political systems have the separate tracks of "usage/demonstration" and "why it was made" and both can serve the emergent meaning engine for themes and the updated reader model clashing with prior expectation engine for themes.

World Law is more specific to fantasy world building and is narrower than tech or political system because there wasn't an in-universe reason for characters to create it. It still shares the "what is it doing" and "disclosure of mechanics and history of research" on the page and inferenced, though.

Bond I think is specific to me in the sense that when I write TwiJack or Minette and Reni, their romantic relationship is a reflection of the theme and intertwined with the story rather than decoupled from the plot and present just for good feels. A Bond doesn't really have as much inference about its nature compared to characters; most of the romance appears on the page.

Organization has the same history disclosure of formation and activities, what activities the org is doing on the page. But the world truth is Binding Logic and the world inference is more about what the reader infers about the organization's members. That is where the meaning comes from, not the existence of the organization itself.

Give a thorough analysis of these insights, add to gaps, refute weak assertions, and verify or disprove my guesses/claims

--- [U160] ---
Need readonly mode and dynamic display questions based on mode for note tracks, also restrictions on moving to confirmed
The loss of reader expecation change is why later seasons of any show drag on. That's why TLTT relies on prequels and starts at the end chronologically? That's why I felt that's the way to go, so that I can keep invoking the reader prior expecatation clash which is Lauren Faust's tradition?
Yes, I understand that the original Three Little Pigs only talks about actions. My proposed enhancement of Three Little Pigs where we replace "and they learned the value of hard work" with "the first and second pig helped the third pig build his brick house" is a way of telling evidence which infers character development (the first and second pig changed to do hard work instead of play) which serves as evidence of the theme (hard work has inherent value, long term investment is better than short term gain).
Also, the fact that The Cutie Mark Chrononicles is 7 episodes after Sonic Rainboom actually recontextualizes that the Rainboom from the competition was powered by the desire to save Rarity instaed of performative ego, just as th erainboom about FLuttershy. I am not sure if the episode order was intentional, but even if not, the recontextualization emerged from internally consistent worldbuilding. Callbacks in later seasons fall flat because they weren't designed in or following internal rules, they were imposed by Hasbro Mandates. The biggest failure mode was Celestial Advice which retconned why Celestia sent Twilight to Ponyville. The more insidious thing is The Cutie Remark which asserted on screen that the rainboom was destiny. This undercuts the assertion in season 1's internal logic that the rainboom was powered by a desire to protect a friend (although cutie mark chronicles talks about destiny too, so that could be where things get muddy.)
I'm seeing another emergent benefit: by moving more material into inference, the story text on the page gets shorter. It doesn't sprawl or become too long and arduous to read, but the meaning is (should be) all there. Is this why professional editors often end up trimming first draft manuscripts? They move telling into inference, since they have an externalized view and interpretation of the writer's work?
I don't think the "12" track structure generalizes. Only the principles of the tracks. La and En is not clean either. Sometimes they merge, sometimes there are two variants of one, sometimes one is absent.

--- [U162] ---
Are there any precedents for my methodology or is it a unique synthesis of various first principles? Most professional writers write first and get editorial revision after. This custom software program enables reversing the order? Maybe it also has to do with writers in general wanting to write first rather than plan, whereas I came from the perspective of a grand strategy game player and software engineer? Is this methodology in principle deserving of an article or paper if it works out? I guess I've framed things in terms of George R.R. Martin's architects vs gardeners talk, but I've seen that within the "architecting" it also goes both ways, from subject to plot point or from plot point to subject, even before prose. And I believe he called himself a gardener; who did he (or his audience, or disciples) refer to as architects?

--- [U164] ---
I have provided more questions in a text paste, plus another text paste with v1 story planner content for the questions. Please give a full analysis

--- [U166] ---
Now that I have built out the program, I need to make an informed decision on workflow. 

I have the display questions and the usage directives for each track. Should I try to write subjects from scratch, then read through v1 notes on the subject and revise while marking off v1 notes? Should the v1 notes be migrated to v2 as an unset track or stay in v1? How do I approach plot points and links?

What info do you need from me to fill gaps in logic for the reasoning without hallucinating?

--- [U168] ---
App is built but tracks not yet configured. I have to start somewhere.

Display text changes per mode. I have to add in the text for reach mode in the note track definition.

V2 does not have incorporated. Confirmed vs unset vs flagged was meant to supplant the Boolean incorporated.

V1 notes exist in a v1 story planner app. That app reflects my past workflow but doesn't have tracks. I also have a script that migrated notes into the unset tracks of v2 and correct subject, link and plot point. The ids and links are preserved. But note that some stuff is in wrong cognitive mode or subject. Either one is an option.

AJ's notes from v1 are in her subject for v2. But because of the incomplete unrigorous nature of v1, some notes that should be in AJ in v2 live in many different subjects in v1.

Gemini uses v1 and takes three entire 300k words as context, 500k tokens. I plan on v2 export being more granular, but that's not implemented yet. But I'm willing to pause expansion until v2 is sorted.

If I go with the export, subjects are already created but need to be given a type. Remember some subjects are wrong and should be folded into others.

A session can be all night if I want. I'm basically using almost all my free time on it after work or weekends as long as it gives me more dopamine than any other non-planned activity.

--- [U170] ---
What if I have two instances of v2 planner open? One with the imported v1 for tracking purposes, and the second as my working clean copy?

--- [U172] ---
I don't want to do software engineering work on v1 anymore. And the data model divergence is intentional between v2 with v1 data and clean v2 because subjects need consolidation and new ones created. I don't want to do this in place, I want it separated. Give an analysis and also point out gaps in understanding for me to clarify

--- [U174] ---
What are the pros and cons of loading both into the same database but having separate windows?

Clean doesn't have anything right now but if helpful you can suggest

Also I'm not sure how to decide where to break up plot points. If the old ones cover too much in one plot point then that's not transferable. My old methodology was just data capture. I didn't put too much thoughts into stakes or outcome. I didn't think that far, I was mostly in expansion mode

Planning for old material to not be deleted but at least moved to confirmed track to show I included everything in the clean version. But I'm considering moving or copy paste prose fragments that are decent.

I don't know the consolidations yet

Not sure how to handle links if plot points aren't one to one

Give analysis and declare gaps for me to clarify

--- [U176] ---
I think I really need to drill down on what makes a plot point a plot point. Please analyze from first principles given what we've already built with subjects and plot point subject links which are meant for calibrating thematic proposition evidence and reader experience and separating page, world inference and theme proposition evidence.

Are plot points about page level planning then? What else? I think I previously used it for summary to revise later. Originally "plot point" was going to be a single note then somehow it became scene level. Also analyze existing examples of v1 notes to understand what actually went into these and how I can approach in v2. Ask clarifying questions instead of assuming

--- [U178] ---
"griffon magic" was a placeholder for a plan to uncover griffon magic through a new character but that character wasn't invented yet. "Why didn't Chrysalis invent a magic rifle?" I can see being a flagged chapter note to make sure to include the question somewhere. 

Chapters I imagine are units of publishing with an arc that the chapter name alludes to. Sometimes they grew big enough to be split into chapters. But they aren't arbitrary plot point groups or single scenes

Where one plot point ended and another began in v1 can come down to: scene break, time skip, character change. But there were also extended sequences in time but plot into different plot points when the vibe changed. There was no method to this. That's why I need to derive a helpful method that informs the page prose from first principles moving forward, as was done rigorously for subjects and plotpointsubjectlink

What I meant by "originally a single note" I was refering to a time when the whole planner was just chapters and threads meant to intersect at one sentence summaries. The planner grew beyond that era

--- [U180] ---
Maybe I need a parallel data track for a chapter, of raw capture beats and plans and prose fragments, separate from refined plot points that need stakes and outcome and reader understanding target? which allows me to not have to edit gardened text in place when it is time to determine these things. Or would this just create more mess to have different data structures?
The key thing is that I am not in a position to pencil in stakes or outcome because I haven't even finished expanding the world. There were times when i drafted entire dialogue, and it got invalidated a month later as I shifted the foundation of the story. But I still need a place to capture clever insights that would go on the page and the plot structure like a general idea of what happens when and what informs what (otherwise there would be no story, just a vast wiki of lore)
Also note that in my old v1 workflow I would sometimes make plot points with no chapter; they were floating. They captured something I felt should reach the reader, often with links to subjects. Perhaps they are also sometimes acting as containers for cross subject things that reach the reader. But these floating plot points are a minority.
If two links that talk about different outcomes shouldn't share a plot point, does that mean if any links converge on a plot point, they should each be serving as evidence for the same thematic proposition? Is that how I make plot points coherent and make a powerful reader experience? If so, would this be a HARD rule or a soft rule?
If so, then I can't be using the paradigm that links have to link a subject and a plot point. If the links need to be defined first, and then links of the same theme can be put together.
Some of my existing "plot points" have huge delivery sequences and 6+ subjects connecting to them in v1. What if this is correct, that I have a bucket where the subjects land with links in a general area, then when it's time for refinement, I examine all the links that pertain to the same theme and then make individual scenes and decide how to order them so that each theme stays together, leading to a more "powerful" page for the reader?
Vibe changes may have been differences in theme. But they may have also been just different chunks of plot. That's why I said "vibe" - it's not well defined.
In Chapters 10 to 12 it is specifically a back and forth interweaving of Twilight's plot and Applejack's plot, separated by letters. This is the most complicated part of the story and not fully ordered. The rest of the story is mostly single threaded.
Please elaborate on reader understanding target from first principles; what it ought to be. I haven't given it much thought until now. And suggest alternative nomenclature options so I can pick what is most intuitive. Ask for clarification on gaps in understanding instead of assuming.

--- [U182] ---
I'm wondering: the subject and plot point subject link setup is now heavily revolving around reader inference design for evidence of thematic propositions, but at the plot point level's reader experience, themes aren't the only thing, right? Readers don't only care about meaning. They also care about getting questions answered, questions that the story makes them form. Is this orthogonal to theme evidence as a part of the story that needs designing? And stakes/outcome/reader understanding target encompasses both themes and "questions"/"thinks that make the reader want to read more"?
It seems like separate entity types are better because in-place fixing to make things more structured sounds painful and not productive.
Is it possible for themes to be unrelated? It doesn't seem like that is possible if the story has a coherent direction. It seems like all my current themes are complementary and that's sort of the point.
I do imagine Twilight's narrative about magical engineering and Applejack's narrative about Tzinacatl diplomacy are two sides of the same time, both demonstrations of them working towards the ideals of the eventual Equestrian Republic, across chapters 10-12, and it's all seeded by the town hall in chapter 9.

The pasted in scenes 9.15 to 9.19 of unrefined and unsorted/undisciplined notes is going to be one continuous narrative without scene breaks. I don't know how I separated them and it may not be optimal, but I did something based on "vibes".

9.20 is a "mega bucket" which is one continuous scene which covers a lot of themes and beats I guess, and maybe this should be split into specific points within the deep conversation between Applejack and Twilight each with individual stakes and outcome? Not sure how this would work.

9.21 and 9.22 are probably representative of well-scoped scenes? With a clear stakes and outcome?

Give analysis and ask for info to clear gaps instead of assuming

--- [U184] ---
I have pasted in 9.15 to 9.22. Do the previously specified analysis.

My notes as they are is at such high and unrefined, macro level that I can't think about stakes or outcome or specific reader takeaways because they can get invalidated by new fundamental shifts.
I'm intrigued by how the subject tracks are wide spanning plans and ideally the sum of link tracks can equal the subject tracks. What if chapters are considered in a similar way? The chapter holds the broad beats and plan. This can be refined and arranged. But chapter is still too broad. A subject can have impactful links within a chapter two or more times.
Currently a chapter holds plot points with no payload on that connection.
The original most naive version of story planner was just chapters, plot points, and "story threads", where plot points would be a single sentence describing a scene. Chapters had an outline made up of one sentence plot points and story threads would latch onto the plot points across chapters. If the story threads evolved into rigorous, track-separated notes on Subjects with links with extensive and specific payloads, maybe chapters should be the same? Subject links to plot points are design specs for thematic proposition evidence. Chapter links to plot points are design specs for the storytelling and page stuff? The surface level plans and specs?
Also I'm not even sure how permanent each of the notes in the plot points are. They could become invalidated or need heavy rearranging.
Maybe unlike Subjects we really need to design in a two step process and the desired data structures, or at least the UI presentation of the data, must be tailored? I want to minimize thinking hard about stuff that could become obsolete, and also not losing material that could be good. The way I see it, I'm creating a lot of material, but not everything will make it. And I want to expand the material more but have at least some structure to not shoot myself in the foot later.
I've came up with this elegant subject plot point link system but there seems to be a chicken and egg problem 
Or maybe I should make the plot points from memory, properly scoped?
Give analysis and ask for gaps instead of assuming

--- [U186] ---
Ok, so the v2 ending entities, whatever we call them, which inform prose writing should actually be big, but separated by detailed and split track links? Or should they be granular? Maybe the large size and volume of text isn't a liability once structured?

--- [U188] ---
[Attached file: Chapter 1 - Attitude and Pizzazz.pdf]

I am uploading a PDF of a chapter of actual prose I wrote for an MLP story about Rarity and Fluttershy called Green Is Your Color (not Equestria at War, just regular FiM) about a year and a half ago. Split this up into sample plot points using the principles outlined and specify the stakes, outcome, reader understanding (note that the POV might not be very strict or intentional from my writing back then, that's an area I aim to improve, but you can point this out too). This should hopefully give me a sense of what scope to define plot points in my v2 story planner for The Lioness of Tall Tale. This chapter in particular is somewhat of a deepening of the canon episode Green Isn't Your Color from Season 1.

--- [U190] ---
[Attached file: Chapter 2 - The Return of Flutterguy.pdf]

One correction, the chapter 1 word count is 5717, not 300, so it seems like plot point scope can be bigger than initial projections. I think if a "plot point" is indeed this scope, it wouldn't be too hard to define them ahead of time. Please analyze chapter 2 of the story for plot point scoping analysis and POV analysis. This chapter 2 is based on the canon season 4 episode Filli Vanilli but I reimagined it as taking place after Green Isn't Your Color from chapter 1. Also incorporate into your analysis what you know about that canon episode and research audience perceptions of it. Part of the reader experience is also reader expectation being subverted with new info (The La track and themes arising from updating prior belief as discussed earlier in this conversation or the compacted transcript of this conversation)

--- [U192] ---
[Attached file: Chapter 3 - Haute Couture, Please.pdf]

To be clear, the [hr] tags represent line breaks. I believe hiding from rainbow and refuge at Rarity's have to be different scenes. Hiding from Rainbow has a different stakes and outcome, from refuge at Rarity's, I think. But in TLTT I probably won't have scenes that short with short line breaks because I'll be planning ahead. This story didn't really have that kind of planning or trimming.

I can kind of see how the running and the confession, despite being two different action sequences, are an integrated reader experience.

I think TLTT I will have an easier time sticking to third person limited with planning; this story was tougher because the conflicts are kind of more interpersonal rather than external. Although that isn't exactly true, I think both TLTT and this story can be similar. But the main difference is less reliance on deliberate POV switching for irony.

And I'm seeing how, even before encountering EaW, planning TLTT, and was only limited to just canon FiM, I already was obesessed with "reader prior belief correction" and subversion as a storytelling power.

Please analyze the above, and then apply the same kind of analysis to chapter 3, attached, which is based on the canon episode Suited For Success.

--- [U194] ---
[Attached file: Chapter 1 - Attitude and Pizzazz.pdf]

I pasted instructions for more analysis and attached a PDF of chapter 4. Please thoroughly answer everything.

--- [U196] ---
[Attached file: Chapter 4 - The Best Garden Ever.pdf]

Here is chapter 4, apply the same kinds of analysis

--- [U198] ---
I suppose chapter 4 has good FID because Fluttershy's emotions and interiority are uncontested for narration space. In chapter 1 there was sharing between Fluttershy and Rarity. Chapter 2 adds Pinkie Pie too. In TLTT I think it'll be more clear who to be the pov anchor since I'll have the story planner and the conflict is at a scale that is beyond interpersonal and internal stakes, even though the internal and interpersonal are also there. 

What's interesting about the carriage scene that you flagged as "no thematic weight, it's a transition" is that it's actually planting multiple Latent data points which serve plot points about Twilight and Applejack later.

Also please pay special attention to whether things you are analyzing are La (latent) or En (enacted, or emergent). Don't just say everything powerful is La. Use the distinctions developed in this conversation (or the transcript of it, if it is compressed)

Now give a similar analysis of chapter 5 which is based on Lesson Zero.

--- [U200] ---
I think you didn't get access to the ending of the chapter due to truncation which has even more deep stuff between Fluttershy and Twilight, please analyze.

I'm also realizing how I expanded the scope of the story which was originally just about RariShy shipping to also include materialist causality about Twilight (and Rainbow Dash with the sonic Rainboom, Pinkie in Filli Vanilli, and later chapter 8 has Applejack). These are coherent intertwining with the Fluttershy and Rarity arcs but separate threads but I think with common theme overlap which is why it works?

In TLTT the scope expanded so much that I have prequels planned for side characters instead of putting everything in the main story.

--- [U202] ---
Here is my tentative workflow for populating v2:

Write the display text for subject types
Create the subjects and their project-wide tracks from memory after a quick scan of v1, following display questions
Create the plot points as empty buckets, just to have a plan outline skeleton they subjects can link to, and to have the right scope. Analysis of my past written story prose gave a sense of appropriate scope for plot points
Link subjects to plot points to have a skeleton 
Audit subjects from v1, fill in stuff in v1 that was missed from memory
Audit plot points from v1, put subject-appropriate stuff into subjects instead of in the plot point, evaluate delivery blueprint and keep what is still compatible as unset in delivery blueprint track, define stakes and outcome

Then further expansion can proceed, using the new data set as clean context. New plot points can be made of genuinely separate from the existing skeleton.

Give an analysis of this workflow, potential complications, viable alternatives, and ask for more info to clear gaps in understanding instead of assuming.

--- [U204] ---
Now I'm thinking the links should be created from me reading plot points (auditing them) then linking to the subject. Not provisional links with no data.

Since GIYC revealed that plot points do have large scope of text, I don't need separate beat capture. Also since TLTT is only plans, not prose, the word count parallels aren't very meaningful. What I needed to learn is that it's okay for delivery blueprints to cover a lot of ground of it's one reader experience.

AJ's v1 subject tracks don't really have plot point specific data. In v1, plot point synopses have subject level data or things that belong on tracks in links (separate of P, WI and T) but subject notes generally don't have much in plot point scope. It's more backstory and arc plans and theme relations, or also research directives to expand on something more.

Plot point list won't come from memory, I'll scan v1 plot point lists in chapters and make a judgement 

I expect 100 subjects and 400 plot points is my current scope. The text count is around 300k words. This is 5 months of story planning content sitting in v1.

Either Gemini expansion or Claude for expansion to answer flagged questions. I plan on making subjects/links/plot points selectable for export with a UI for selecting, so that I don't have to send the whole 300k words which is 500k tokens. Gemini is hitting needle in haystack problems and Claude has usage limits (Gemini also just added usage limits, though AI studio may still be lenient).

--- [U206] ---
There are currently 32 chapters with nearly as much attention and detail as the chapter which I shared with you, 9-12. I don't think I should go chapter by chapter because everything in all chapters relate to and are designed on each other. If I spend a ton of effort on refinement of chapters 9-12, them discover big story planning shifts later, 9-12 need to be reworked. This is why expansion must finish before refinement starts anywhere. In order to finish expansion, i need to sort existing data into something workable and comprehensible first, but not refine it because everything could potentially be replaced.

--- [U208] ---
I can't just route v1 text to tracks in v2. I tried that and failed because v1 data is mixed cognitive mode and not able to be decoupled into focused tracks. That's why v2 data needs to be written from memory using the track questions.
Currently the v1 mixed text gives some context for AI but uses way too many tokens and has ambiguity they leads to hallucination. And it is not helpful for a prose writer in this unorganized mode.
I agree that organization comes first, expansion then refinement.
Building the subject tracks from memory, separated by track, may be "refinement" but is not the same as refinement of the delivery blueprint (chapters and plot points).
I won't signal that I am done with expansion until there are 0 flagged questions left. Currently there are 60 in v1, and probably 50+ more hidden in plot point text because only the subject notes in v1 supported the Boolean flag, not plot point text fields. In order to answer a flagged question, I need to ask AI for analysis about it, which requires context. I am hitting a wall where the analysis is degrading due to too much text context and tokens. That's why I need to organize, so I can be more selective about context. Doing analysis WILL create more flagged questions. I'm not in a rush to write. I don't care about timeline. I care about correctness and not doing things out of order that will make me redo things. I don't want to repeat myself.
I want all the backstory and foundation concrete before I work on really making plot point deliveries and reader inference design. I want to map out where everything connects before hand. There is provisional blueprints of ideas I think might work which need a home too. That's what the plot point skeleton would be for. But these can be invalidated, which is why they must not be refined.
Don't just use phase numbers, attach a descriptor to it for disambiguation.
I want to make sure all text in v1 synopses that should be in v2 subject or link tracks makes it to their track. I want the working copy of v2 to have no track question violations. The archive version of v2 (imported v1 so that every text field can gave independent unset or confirmed for tracking, and v1 synopses were split into separate notes using double return carriage new line) is what ever mix of v1 was there and won't contaminate the future looking v2 database instance.
Let's take a different approach on coming up with the workflow, rather than coming up with ideas, let's align on requirements, intent, goals, anything else relevant, and make all these things precise. What gaps in your understanding do you have that could inform the decision making logic and process for determining the workflow?

--- [U210] ---
The archive instance is already made. It is the same application as the v2 story planner. The v2 story planner has an archive mode. Right now the working copy is completely empty because I have not started it yet.

The subject foundation and backstory tracks which I will write from memory using display questions are still only snapshots of the current state. Most will probably stay but can still change or be reworked if I discover a better way to handle that subject to serve the story and themes. So it's a provisional anchor that can shift. The reason I'm doing this is to get my subject data into an organized state so I can get better analysis from LLMs and have it serve a useful reference for writing links and then plot points and then prose.

Arc and Reveal Plan can be empty. Even foundation or historical record can be not fully filled in to the max depth if that material hasn't been developed yet. I just want whatever exists scattered across v1 to make into a nice home (a specific track) in v2.

A plot point bucket doesn't technically need anything. It could "not exist" if the plot wasn't conceived of yet. But whatever is scattered across v1 I want in a proper place in v2 so that it can potentially serve as context for questions/analysis/expansion that is based on it. When asking analysis questions, the data in plot points are relevant. Not having the data means worse answers.

Provisional blueprints would come verbatim for v1 if they really are "provisional blueprints" as in they are dialogue, a sentence describing what a character does, an event taking place. They might not be mixed mode paragraphs that are too hard to untangle. The mixed mode paragraphs are more like, it's an event that happens, coupled with what the reader should feel about it in the same sentence, coupled with how it applies to a theme in the same paragraph. That is too hard to migrate. But if a sentence is just a plain line of provisional dialogue or a plain statement about what happens, it can be copied over into an unset track in a plot point in v2. So I guess not all v1 text is invalid for direct routing, only the text that is too tangled.

"Map out where everything connects" means subject to plot point links in the working copy. I think the best way to do this during the data transmutation is when reading plot points, see if they already connected to a subject in v1, and if it's meaningful, I can make the link. This will usually be because the plot point link in v1 does have a text field. Also there can be stuff in the plot point synopsis that should belong in a v2 link instead of a v2 delivery blueprint, thus I want to make that link to the subject. But I will only be making links when text exists in v1 which deserves to be in a link. I won't be making new links for newly created text yet, only existing text that needs the proper home.

The 60 flagged questions and extra hidden ones are all kinds of things. They need to be routed to appropriate tracks in v2. Questions to myself to research how to deliver and shape the writing, Need to do XYZ, plot ideas, world truths which I'm not sure fit and need a decision on whether to keep or delete or rework, facts with an "is this true?" added on, a note with "Does this work?" added on, contradictions that need to be resolved, plans for future plot. Prose writing does not start until all of these are resolved with something I am satisfied with. I think not even auditing or moving things to Confirmed can begin until all flagged notes are resolved with something I am satisfied with. Any note that is flagged has potential to change plans anywhere.

I also have more notes not in v1 but just in my personal google keep, and more things to review in other Gemini and Claude chats.

Here are my numbers from the v1 to v2 migration script: 34 chapters, 450 plot points, 226 subjects. Some subjects will be consolidated because in v1 I had, for example, an entry on Queen Chrysalis and another for how her backstory was uncovered and then another on her economic scheme. Some of the plot points are empty stubs besides the title. It could mean future work on filling it in, or it could mean it could be folded into another plot point. A minority of plot points have so much text with too much scope that it can be split, but this seems to be the exception, not the norm.

I thought I needed all subjects filled in before I can continue expanding, but technically with selective export UI I don't. Since I won't be pasting in the whole context anyway anymore as that's ineffective and a waste of tokens. Before, things were frictionless when I was using Gemini in AI Studio's 1M token window to just put 500k tokens in. But the results are getting worse now. However, if I don't fill in the subjects in v2, I won't have possible context available for selection. That doesn't seem like a good idea.

I still have to build the selective export UI. This shouldn't be too much work.

Confirmed state on archive notes requires the note to be fully evaluated to make sure everything in its text and its implications exists somewhere in v2, if applicable. If the note was invalidated by more recent world building then it can be put in Confirmed without text reaching v2. Once everything is Confirmed to be evaluated for inclusion in v2, the archive will be retired because now v2 is the master database with everything organized. During subject building from memory, which happens before evaluating v1 for inclusion, I would consult v1 briefly, then minimize it and write into the pristine v2 tracks.

All subjects should be built to a rigorous standard so that revision later is minimized.

I think plot points can be added progressively as expansion reaches those areas. The main story has 32 chapters with pretty clear arcs planned. The prequels don't have clear arcs planned, just a somewhat stable idea of what the focal characters' backstories are chronologically.

--- [U212] ---
Clarification: every flagged note in v2 working copy has to be resolved before anything in v2 working copy can move to confirmed. For the archive moving to confirmed, the note's text just needs to evaluated that all of its statements and nuances/subtext made it into v2. Flagged notes in the archive become flagged notes in v2.

Tangled v1 paragraphs have to evaluated: I need to dissect the nuance of the text and put the insights into the appropriate tracks. This is too hard working from a blank slate, which is why the tracks should be prepopulated from memory as a starting point before trying to evaluate v1 tangled paragraphs.

Consolidation doesn't happen before subject building begins because the text data is not disciplined. The judgement should be made on the fly.

Many Google Keep and AI chat notes DO contradict data in v1. But I have to start somewhere. If I remember that v1 data is outdated from undocumented data, then I'll skip or put flagged notes. This seems to suggest that the google keep and AI chat note entry into v2 should come before the v1 evaluation pass that moves notes to Confirmed in the archive to mean included. The biggest example is a chat where I decided EEEE! is a machinist's guild, not a combative union. So when I encounter notes in v1 about EEEE! being a union, I would not put it in v2.

Hidden flagged notes in plot point text can become flagged in the v2 plot point with a flag question. Flagged notes and reasons absolutely accumulate in v2. Flags should not go to the archive. But crucially, the flag question is a property of a note in v2's design, not a separate note. Thus the owning note can belong to the correct track, which maintains rigorous sanitation. Flagged notes also appear in a different section of the UI as unset notes.

Rigorous standard means no cognitive mixing. What's on the page stays separate from what the reader should infer. It doesn't mean content completeness. It can have flagged notes.

I want to get some subjects into v2 so that I can test the selective export with some real data. Also I've done a lot of software engineering work on the v2 application and want to defer the export so I can do author-related tasks instead of software-related tasks for the short term.

--- [U214] ---
All 5 facts in the Updated Understanding are correct and aligned.

My usual workflow back in v1 times would involve starting a conversation by pasting in the entire context, asking a question that was a flagged question, getting an answer, and then iterating until I like the result. Then I would read the conversation in reverse and add what I like into v1. I pick what insights I like and leave behind what I didn't like. There are probably 20+ full conversations that I have to read through and add the insights that I like into v2's appropriate tracks. But I think I need to start with subjects from memory first so that there's a starting point.

The tangled plot point should have all things that belong on subject tracks or subject plot point link tracks go to those. The rest can go to appropriate tracks on the plot point; I will have appropriate display questions. No tangled paragraphs whatsoever should enter v2; v2 must have notes in appropriate tracks. I think this makes sense; I previously included "Unset" as a track in v2 to import old notes, but now I think those old notes stay in archive as mixed and never enter v2.

Highest priority subjects first

--- [U216] ---
I had a "CognitiveMode" enum which each note track should have one value. I'm wondering if I should update or scrap this concept. Currently it is serving as the background color for the track.

The original values were: InUniverseContent, ReaderExperienceDesign, NotesToSelf, Analogical, LinguistingExecution. And I recently appended on Page and WorldInference.

Review where these came from throughout the conversation and the artifacts, and determine if they are obsolete or should be modified to fit the new design. What purpose would they serve?

I am currently using the EditorModes like Expansion, Linking and Gardener to toggle the display text between DisplayQuestion, UsageDirective

--- [U218] ---
I'm thinking each of these cognitive modes should be accompanied by a description, both on the UI for me to read as a reminder and to be part of the ai llm context export to signify what the notes are for.

So PageDesign would say "These notes are written by a Director staging what readers should observe." WorldInference would say "These notes are written by a Reader Psychologist designing what the reader constructs from evidence."

Therefore, I think WorldTruth needs to be broken up into the layer 1/2/3 splits to accomodate the different Physicist/Historian/Psychologist stances required to author and analyze that track. This is where differentiation between subject types like Character and WorldLaw and PoliticalSystem and Bond come in.

I believe Metatextual (which I renamed to NotesToSelf to be more intuitive) is limited in scope for specifically talking about the project. Analogical is different, it's connecting the project to the real world. Neither of them reach the page.

--- [U220] ---
I don't think Foundation and Historical Record are a one size fit all presciption for subject types. For Technology and Political System I was considering tracks like History, How it works, and then Why it was created which is psychologist or economist or sociologist.

I would like a deconstruction of the "Physicist" cognitive mode into first principles based on what could appear, and then from the total, maixmal first principles list of cognitive modes I can decide which one apply to subject types.

--- [U222] ---
What are the pros and cons of declaring these 8 cognitive modes to be mutually exclusive, requiring different tracks, or if some can be combined in a track, but the track still clearly labels what two things are operating and that it's not to be a mix of all 8? Are there natural overlaps, are overlaps productive or shooting myself in the foot? Why or why not? Because it seems like political scientist and economist and sociologist have overlap regarding political systems and potentially others. Should these lenses be mixed in a track or does that create problems? From the perspective specifically of a world builder/project manager/writer; that is to say, my specific project's purposes. Please ask clarifying questions for gaps instead of assuming.

--- [U224] ---
I think when Claude initially diagnosed "notes need to become typed claims and separate tracks" this was a correct diagnosis of history, psychology, reader inference and what's on page and stuff like that needing separation, but upon looking deeply at the nuances, I think political and economic separation is too far. These do belong in one track for things like Harmonic Capitalism because they are designed together for worldbuilding and story telling. So I think things need to be framed in terms of authorship/storytelling/story planning. Psychology is very special, specifically individual character psychology, because that is load bearing. History/backstory is separate. Physicist (the magical systems that are made up for the story) is separate. Then stuff like economy, political, sociology, anthropology needs a good umbrella term distinct from the other three pillars. They belong in the same pillar because they serve the same worldbuilding/storytelling purpose, I think. I also need a precise term for the "Physicist" considering I am making subject entities for world laws that I am creating for the story/world, such as "Earth Pony Magic". I'm not making subject entities for world laws that exist in real life like "haber-bosch process" or "nitrocellulose gunpowder" or "how oil is formed". I guess Ontology is what I'm creating for the world, so maybe ontologist? Or fantasy system builder? Don't know if these are too specific.

With this insight in mind, I don't think the LLM should receive economic and political analysis separately. They seem to be part of the same worldbuilding pillar - separate from backstory and character psychology and immutable world physics that were created. These are things created by characters, kind of like technology too. And technology doesn't have entries for things that already exist in WW2-era tech; I am making entries for magical/original stuff for TLTT (and since I made them, they serve a storytelling and probably a thematic purpose, hence get a subject entry).

When imagining a scene with a political system, an integrated account of both power analysis and incentive analysis is probably what is most helpful and meaningful for the author and reader. Similar answer for whatever happens with technology.

--- [U226] ---
I made the tracks for Character and started going through but realized some character notes really should be links. So now I think I need to make the plot points first but leave them empty so that links can be made. Currently I'm flagging them in the v1 archive with a flag note of where I think it should land.

I want to minimize double work. I am okay with the process of migration and sanitation being long, but I want the process to be optimized.

--- [U228] ---
The scene specific content comes out of a tangled paragraph. For example: 974 - Coltbert stopped Gisele's abuse by saying cruelty is uncouth. He used manners as a weapon. He offers a proper affair but she has to ask nicely; she throws him out. The other griffonesses brag to Gisele, showing off their trophy shelves (tableau de chasse). Gisele asks Minette to make a nice suit for Coltbert. Coltbert asks Minette if the Gisele made it, Minette lies for Gisele under pressure but Coltbert asks for the truth, saying it would be a shame if Gisele is lying, and Gisele admits that Minette made it. Then Coltbert says have your servant teach you how to make the suit, then he'll accept it. So Minette spends days teaching Gisele how to make the suit, and the other servants are totally left alone. Minette is fascinated at how Coltbert forced her to negotiate by calling her a brute. She helps Lady Gisele fill out her tableau de chasse (trophy shelf) to compete with the other noble griffonesses.

This old note on Minette is partly history for her, but the specific line "He used manners as a weapon" isn't a Minette note at all, it's a Coltbert note for whatever plot point is the dramatization of this summary in Minette's prequel, and that line implies a WI and T (I can feel it in the subtext) that I haven't written out but eventually should. I never made plot points for Minette's prequel, but it seems like I should in order for the Coltbert insight to be properly categorized in a way that is useful going forward.

--- [U230] ---
The thing is, I used Minette's character entry in v1 as essentially a dumping ground for plans for her prequel. Yes, "he uses manners as a weapon" is part of Coltbert's foundation, but it's ALSO present in this specific event. If I don't create a home for that fact in v2 by making a plot point in Minette's prequel, that insight, to invoke Coltbert using manners as a weapon in that specific scene is Lost. Right now it is implied because his psychological foundation is mentioned alongside the tangled scene. This seems to mean the text can't just be moved somewhere, it really needs a proper home in order to preserve the insights.

I don't intend on writing out the WI and T during transmutation. The empty fields on the link would signify future work required.

Prequel content is probably not that common. I looked at Minette because she would be complex. Now I'm thinking to defer her. But maybe it's better in the long term to consider her now. I don't want to do double work (some is inevitable, but optimizing work order is preferred), and I don't want to lose insights.

Vague scene references I probably would just flag. Some "link content" my head goes straight to where I think it should belong, hence why I think those links need to be made on the spot to avoid double work. I think I can do the plot point skeleton for the main story now, not sure about prequels. They do have some sort of outline.

--- [U232] ---
Should there be some overlap between character's psychology track and history track? Because their psychology is caused by the history. How do I keep the tracks clean such that they are useful, but still have the necessary insights? It's starting to seem like these are not mutually exclusive tracks but rather the psychology/characterization builds on the history.

--- [U234] ---
Here is an example of a v1 note:

Crystal ponies have emotion sense just like changelings. When they crystalize, it's a visual indicator of caloric surplus and charitostatic magic. Crystals are stored magic, so the transparent crystalization effect is stored friendship.  Adjacent to how thymodynamic magic from windigos are stored in crystals
Example from the canon episode: the crystal ponies literally get color back to their dull coats after hearing about the crystal faire
The big blast at the crystal faire makes even non crystal ponies get the crystalization effect

What track should the "example from the canon episode" go into? World truth ontology? Analogical? Should a new kind of track be defined?

--- [U236] ---
Is there overlap with the reader opinion plan where I'm outlining how the reader's understanding updates, starting with tropes or preexisting material? Or this is something a bit different, where if they watch the canon show again after reading my story, they might view the show differently? It's similar to the reader prior belief clash but applied to the show itself which already existed and how my worldbuilding affects the interpretation of the show? Since a lot of my world building works within the constraints of the hasbro mandates to recontextualize them.

--- [U238] ---
I'm thinking canon recontextualization doesn't need to be designed. It happens to a reader based on my ontology and reveals. This track doesn't seem to impact the design of my story.

And what is the purpose of source evidence for design of my story, if any?

--- [U240] ---
It really feels like inspiration from real world (analogical) and inspiration from source material warrant a separation. Maybe their usage for design overlaps, but still they feel distinct. The thing is, source material is also fantasy like TLTT, not real world analogies.

Are there any other important points that could warrant the distinction? Why do they feel distinct?

--- [U242] ---
The "Stagnation of Harmony" concept recontextualizes the canon show not as a utopia, but as a Nursery.
    The Nursery: A nursery is safe, soft, and innocent. But you cannot stay in a nursery forever. The Changeling invasion kicked down the door.
    The Trauma of Puberty: The war acts as a metaphor for the nation hitting puberty. They discover sex (Aquileian influence), violence (The Front), and independence (The Republic).
    Celestia as the Overprotective Mother: Her attempt to "White Peace" the conflict is a parent trying to shove the grown child back into the crib. Applejack’s refusal ("I am the Lioness") is the moment the child moves out. It is painful, but necessary.

I'm really not sure how to decouple and categorize the above notes. What are they saying? What story planning/design purpose do they serve? Are they too broad? Already implied? Is there a home for them?

--- [U244] ---
What order should v1 plot points be evaluated to populate v2? I want the possible logic for making this decision. I am hesitant to go in chapter order because early chapters actually feel less developed because I wanted the big picture before seeing the early chapters with things with payoff later. I'm wondering if plot points that are immovably load bearing would go first as anchors? Like the Town Hall which lays out the thesis. But the Stagnation chapter which is a big turning point is a disorganized mess and could get stuff added to it or cut still.

--- [U246] ---
[Attached file: TLTT v2-definitions.md]

Here are the tracks I came up with. Give an analysis, comparing to the principles established throughout this conversation. What is working well? What could be meaningfully improved, if any? Are there any significant gaps?

--- [U248] ---
I am going ahead with "What should the reader independently conclude from this scene? Synthesize the thematic propositions evidenced by all subject links." Now I want a better track name than "reader experience target".

Do I need a different track type for the project-wide plans? Should I have one? The track itself doesn't go on the page. It's an aggregate. It's a planning reference which only I see, not the reader. (Though the reader can construct it themself if they are really invested)

POV field will exist independent of note tracks and will be required.

I imagine delivery blueprint and inference seeds are separate. Delivery blueprint is dry, omniscient summary or sample prose. Inference seeds contain sample phrases. Me as a writer later would read both when writing prose.

I'm not really sure how analogies on a bond would work, but I agree source material references for fanon TwiJack is warranted, and also canon events that are shipping fuel. But I need to know how to distinguish from Twilight's source material references and Applejack's source material references.

What subjects are missing meaningful tracks that a different track has?

I think the project-wide character development track is supposed to be an authorial plan. This goes back to needing a separate track type for these project wide plans. This is an aggregate of what goes on the page. Like I mentioned before, I believe an invested reader should be able to assemble something that resembles my plan.

--- [U250] ---
What should be the separate track type name for the source material reference track, if it is to be separated from allegories?

I feel like there is something special about characters, who are the ones we experience the story through, that warrants a separate track for themes about character development. And maybe this track is specifically for when the character is the POV character? Because being the POV character leads to especially distinct and powerful thematic proposition evidence? Hence why I am bothering to write prequels for other characters. And in TLTT, the POV is not just Applejack and Twilight, it goes to other mane 6 members (Rarity, Fluttershy, Rainbow Dash and Pinkie Pie) and also their friends/mentors in very specific moments meant for character development (when Mali decides to take action to change the world instead of accepting others' flaws/inaction passively as one example)

Meanwhile, the rest of the subjects are kind of like constructs that can be discarded. The dismantling of an organization or civilizational system is intertwined with what the reader infers from the page so that's why there's one track. But characters are different because they can't just be discarded/dismantled and they are the storytellers.

Please give a precise analysis on these insights

--- [U252] ---
No wonder the first conversation (character reader perception gap, do you have a summary?) felt foreign and overwhelming. It was the deepest possible track, skipping over all these other "lower level" or more fundamental tracks that are foundational storytelling. I had to walk (getting the basic tracks) before I could run (finally understand the reader character perception gap from the first conversation) and this was the advanced method I didn't really understand. I understood the reader prior belief clash implicitly from learning from Lauren Faust and writing green is your color and it's all over my TLTT story plans. I didn't understand the reader character perception gap intrinsically because I didn't understand 3rd person limited. I was using third person (omniscient) mainly for paralipsis, to withhold reader knowledge until the moment a revelation could clash against prior beliefs. This seemed incompatible with fid. Now I know I can use fid for character reader perception gap and paralipsis for the prior belief clash setups, and they both can be achieved via INTENTIONAL variable focalization. The theme tracks were the planning mechanism to make these third person limited choices intentional.

It also seems like the old advice conflated the menu different ways to deliver themes and take notes

How does the reader-character perception gap contrast with the reader prior belief clash? These are both distinct from the P/WI/T pipeline? The P/WI/T pipeline is the default, available in omniscient? Then reader prior belief clash is enabled by fanfiction or just rubbing up against general media tropes, requiring paralipsis/variable focalization, and the reader character perception gap is from third person limited, requiring FID?

Derive the taxonomy of the escalating levels of sophistication starting from Three Little Pigs (simplest children's story) and up the levels of literature until reaching my current level of operation

For characters who are observed, they keep the same theme track that the constructs have, the witness/infer/theme evidence pipeline? Plus the reader prior belief clash as mode 2? Should infer actually have theme evidence or it should be separate? They seem to be collapsing, I am not sure, need example from AJ

What makes my current system "correct" or not? The old advice they was naive or "dress reckoning" without iteration was deficient, but how do I know this system is not deficient, or at least, not too deficient that I'll need to do another rework?

--- [U254] ---
Is the character reader perception gap well studied? From Robert McGee or someone else? What about the reader prior belief clash? I determined I got this partially from how Lauren Faust worked against common tropes and subverted the Hasbro Mandate of a toy commercial 

Also go into more detail about how these two things deliver theme evidence separately, and how it contrasts with the the standard P/WI/T

For my WI vs T distinction, currently T is worded as what evidence the subject provides for the thematic proposition in the scene. The theme itself is a property of the note. Would the T note be explaining how the evidence is evidence for the selected theme? And the evidence itself is in WI?

--- [U256] ---
I am pretty sure that Lauren Faust has said in interviews that she had MLP G1 toys as a kid and made up personalities for them because the G1 shows weren't satisfying enough (maybe there's an exception for Rescue at Midnight Castle which was a spark of what was possible? Her online username is fire_flye based on what I think was Firefly the protectionist of that first animated movie?)

If so, Faust's G4 would be akin to an elaborate "fanfiction" of a very old and Stagnant IP. And it got funded by the IP holder, then control taken away. It seems like the category is a bit more broad than fanfiction but shares a fundamental mechanism. I also think The Little Mermaid does this partly, and Mulan fully. Also Frozen! Maybe Tangled, although I haven't watched it? And Shrek? The Princess Bride? Monty Python?

Seems like there is some overlap with satire but satire isn't genuine the way Friendship is Magic or Mulan are.

--- [U258] ---
I think the reader character perception gap is relatively low applicability in TLTT itself, and prior belief clash is more relevant, but in specifically Chrysalis's prequel-sequel which is read after TLTT, structured as a greek tragedy where the reader already knows her machine is flawed but inhabit Chrysalis as a competent narcissist rational CEO who built the system and her justifications and grievances against the old nobility, this is where the reader character perception gap is used to maximum potential.

Should WI track for the standard P/WI/T rational evidence for attentive witness be separated from a distinct WI track for reader prior belief clash? Where the P is the update, the WI states what the expected prior is and the desired update, and the T has how that update acts as evidence for a theme?

It seems like Sincere Revision is a relatively new possibility due to mass media in the last 50-80 years? Also maybe commercialization? And the flattening of media for the masses? Is it specifically that or more general?

I encountered Faust's MLP:FiM in November 2023 with its strong prior belief clash mechanisms, but I think my first encounter with it goes all the way back to April 2014 when I read a pokemon fanfiction called Silver, in a particular scene where the female lead, Eve, unexpectedly is a strong battler while Silver (the male Eevee lead) had spent 13 chapters prior trying to protect Eve as they escaped captivity. The author hid Eve's battling prowess for 13 chapters. As a teenage boy, this taught me that I didn't have to be a loud breadwinner who has to carry all responsibility. This story is what got me into reading and writing pokemon fanfiction for 9 years, leading to FiM and writing Green Is Your Color and now planning TLTT. I have pasted in the inspiring chapter in question. Could a pursuit of these reader prior belief clashes be what mainly draws me towards fanfiction? It's outside publication constraints and commercial constraints.

--- [U260] ---
The WI+En and WI+La tracks are separated for characters, but not for the other subjects. I'm wondering if they should be separated. And also, characters have been revealed to have three tracks: witness, prior belief clash, and narrator perception gap. Do these all need to be in separate tracks on Character Plot Point Link? Or, does narrator perception gap go only on plot point? Maybe it does have a home on character link too? Character link enables auditing with subject. Maybe it's intertwined with character arc?

I'm still confused about what should actually go into WI+La versus T+La for prior belief clash. Give an example for the following: the characters in TLTT believe the Stagnation of Harmony was a system Celestia put in place for 1000 years to keep the ponies in a nursery and maintain pacified harmony. Then at the white peace chapter, Celestia tells Applejack it was only 80 years ago that the current policies were put in place as a response to ponies adopting griffon industry (like the Gilded Age) and the ambition turned inward to harm others, which is why ponies at the time petitioned Celestia to ban griffon-style industry. Before 80 years ago, ambitious ponies would be directed to the edge of the Everfree Forest to tame it and settle more land (this is the canonical recount that Granny Smith gives of the founding of Ponyville in the canon episode Family Appreciation Day).

--- [U262] ---
uninhabited note tracks should stack on the side instead of be on full display
How about if plot points need to pick a POV character, and if that POV character ID matches a link's subject, then and only then the narrator gap WI track is displayed on the story planner UI? Because there is something special about the POV character versus the other characters who the POV character is observing. Observed characters can do La revelation and En actions. The POV character additionally has special power. What is it precisely? What are the pros and cons of this conditional approach? Is it overkill or helpful?
Does the WI+La note need to restate the thing that is clashing when the P+La note has that fact already? So the WI+La note can just say the prior belief and how the reader's belief is being updated in response to the content in P+La? Thus the note holds prior belief and the reader's new inferred understanding of the story world. Then T+La specifies how that update serves as thematic proposition evidence. This will be about how the reader was once wrong and now thinks differently? Like how I updated my beliefs after reading Eve use Giga Impact on a Houndour after 13 chapters of being protected?
Also I believe Granny Smith's founding of Ponyville story in Family Appreciation Day was Lauren Faust reaching for something. TLTT expands on it by recontextualizing it as the pre-stagnation era. Thus fulfilling more of FiM's potential. It is "sincere revision". But I'm not sure exactly whether this is source material reference/recontextualization, reader prior belief gap, or both? How are the two intertwined and how are they not intertwined?

--- [U264] ---
[Attached file: All Applejack data.md]

So in standard storytelling (En): reader observes and rationally arrives at the evidence of the argument.
In prior belief clash (La): reader observes disclosure on page, then experiences a clash and update of their OWN understanding.
In narrator perception gap: reader experiences the character's earnest belief. This clashes with their structural understanding.
Are these correct?

I am attaching my v1 data for Applejack: her character notes and all plot points which she had a link to in the v1 story planner. Please give a few examples of each complete mechanism coming from these v1 notes instead of always repeating the "AJ at the machine gun is hiding" example to make sure I'm not overfitting to it (is that example even in the v1 text? If it is, is it actually that important compared to the rest of the notes?)

--- [U266] ---
Now give examples of the mechanisms from this passage from Pax Chrysalia written by Brazen Gauge. This is a fanfiction of EaW that takes the opposite direction of TLTT: in Pax Chrysalia, Chrysalis appears as a narcissist but is actually a harmonist where the arbitrary cruelty is a mask. The changelings defeated Equestria and now Chrysalis has to reign in the predators of her own race because she wants a meritocracy of both changelings and ponies. This passage is specifically of Vaspier, the leader of VOPS, who is a changeling supremacist. The chapter depicts him through FID as genuinely feeling right, while the reader holds the structural context that he's both a monster and also totally outgunned by Chrysalis's supporters, due to the earlier Chrysalis POV chapters. And I guess it shows the earnest mindset of something akin to a 1950s breadwinner father who "owns" his wife and children? Or some feudal lord with a birthright?

--- [U268] ---
[Attached file: TLTT v2-definitions.md]

Can the prior belief clash come from both revelation and enacted events -> inference?
Similarly, for tech or civ system, reader can infer ontology/how it works from revelation about history on page, not just seeing it in action on page. Same for characters, readers can infer their characterization from actions on page or disclosed backstory on page
So the the "La inference and theme" are not strictly from "La reveal" aka backstory. Same for the standard "witnessed action, rational inference, argument evidence" pipeline. Rational inference and argument evidence can come from backstory or history reveal too.

I am attaching the current state of my track definitions for analysis

--- [U270] ---
I'm not sure what is the scope of things that go into garden notes considering I have flag reasons for things that need more planning across any track. Please review this claude chat conversation history to find what should end up in garden notes and where the track came from.

What is the difference between allegories and analogies, from first principles? Which should I use, or if there is a genuine difference, should both exist? Why or why not?

I believe all the non character tracks for links now have the full separation of tracks covering Page, World Inference, Theme evidence, and across both standard witnessing/rational inference and the reader prior belief clash where the reader themself is involved. I haven't revised character yet because of the extra nuance that was discussed in this conversation. Please review it. Character tracks need those tracks that the others have, and in addition needs the two extra tracks for the next separate mechanism about character reader perception gap? Inference and Theme, and note that it's a continuous mechanism. But not any other need for more Page tracks? Also I am wondering if the character link and subject tracks currently conflate things that are needed for character reader perception gap with things for the standard rational witness inference and the reader prior belief update/clash?

Please analyze, from first principles (ignoring what is currently in the character tracks) whether the baseline is established across the other subjects, and then whether that baseline should be deployed properly for character, and then additional character stuff added, potentially only visible if the plot point that is being linked to has that specific character as the POV character. Once the first principles of what should be there are established logically, then compare those first principles with what is currently in the character tracks, and identify current standing differences, how to rectify, and why.

--- [U272] ---
I see. Character link has 8 tracks whereas other subjects have 6. And then on top of that, there are the two POV specific tracks for a total of 10. For a long time, in the beginning part of this Note Categorization Bootstrapping conversation, I was compressing characters to 6 and it was missing stuff. This total, complete expansion and disambiguation makes a lot more sense.

Now, please analyze why character has these additional tracks. Analyze whether the other subject types could have additional tracks too, or not. I'm not talking about the POV specific conditional ones. I'm talking about the character development and whether there are equivalents.

This current conversation "Note Categorization Bootstrapping" was already compressed twice. Please explain the various ways you can access the compressed parts and utilize them. Is there a transcript to access? A way to read from the conversation itself? You were able to access "Character Reader Perception Gap in story design", can you access earlier parts of this conversation, "Note Categorization Bootstrapping", through the same pathway?

--- [U274] ---
Now that we have established that character and bond have 8 tracks (plus two conditional on POV for character), and the rest have 6, please re-evaluate the Subject Tracks/Project-Wide Tracks. Take in all insights and history of deliberation from the transcripts and journal file when analyzing. What should be present for the typical subject types, and then for bond, and then for character?

--- [U276] ---
I feel like the actual content in analogies and allegories is going to end up the same. Should the analogies track have a display question in expansion mode about what inspires world building, and that same track have a usage directive in linking mode about how these analogies should be used for reader inference while not reaching the page? Is it fundamental that any analogy used for world building becomes an allegory target or is there more nuance to it?

Here is what I am theorizing for the connection between link tracks and project wide tracks:

The World Truth tracks (Ontology, History, Civilizational, Characterization) map to the two Page Design tracks, roughly. And also the "standard" world inference track which comes from the page?
The "retrospective" narrative architecture track which covers the plan for the page is also tied to the page design tracks and the standard world inference track by association to the page design.

Then we have the "prospective" narrative architecture track which is the plan for reader belief, and does this map cleanly to the Reader Prior Belief Update WI track?

Then there is the themes subject-wide track which maps to all the theme scene evidence link tracks?

For character (and bond), we add in an arc plan track which corresponds with the Character Development WI track, which is one of the additional tracks that character gets for being a dynamic, changeable psychological interior? Then I'm not sure if the extra theme track about character development goes into the same theme subject wide track as the others or its own track?

Is there any aggregate project wide track for planning/auditing the character reader perception gap WI (POV specific conditional track) across the story? Or is this blended with the character arc plan? This only applies to characters who have a POV that isn't a one off, so pretty much just the prominent protagonist(s) of a story.

Canon, NotesToSelf and External grounding inform World Truth and Inference, sort of like 2nd order material

I have already reworked the UI to make tracks with no notes appear off to the side, so increasing tracks is not a concern if it genuinely helps with story planning and reducing cognitive overload and increasing coherence. It should be warranted when it is not introducing complexity, but merely managing complexity that already inherently exists in the project, rather than making that complexity appear blended in other tracks. But creating tracks that aren't warranted is also a failure mode leading to fragmentation. So the track design choices need to be precise.

--- [U278] ---
So Narrative Architecture tracks on project wide are:
For all subjects:
Appearance Plan - aggregate of disclosure/enactment/standard inference. Editable in audit mode
Reader Opinion Plan - seems like it should not be editable in audit mode. It is declared from subject level and then constrains the links and plot? Although I can discover new twists I want too. So maybe not so simple. It's a two way iterative process?
For character and bond only:
Character Development Plan - also an iterative process?
Reader Character Perception Gap Plan - mostly top down planning in response to character development plan, and only applicable to prominent narrators?
Then does Appearance Plan end up being a two way iterative process too?

Also do Theme Plan and ArcThesis really need to be split or can they be one track? It can have multiple entries. The theme evidence from the gap plan also has to go somewhere. In a consolidate subject-wide themes track or in separate theme tracks?

--- [U280] ---
I don't think "Character Development Plan" and "Character Development (aggregate)" are two different things. Shouldn't they be the same track? By the track being an iterative process between the project wide data and the link data for scene specific, both top down and bottom up are allowed. Same for "Bond Story Plan" and "Bond Development Summary (aggregate)".

For the themes, currently most subjects have two possible thematic proposition evidence tracks: standard/witnessed/rational inference, and evidence the reader arrives at from processing and thinking about the clash with their prior beliefs. Then character/bond has a third: evidence witnessed from character/bond development. And character has a fourth: theme evidence the reader arrives at from processing and thinking about the character-reader perception gap.
That's what we're working with on the link level. Should the subject level Theme Plan track aggregate all 4 across all links? Keep in mind the themes themselves are the same, but I'm not sure if the data is radically different to warrant different tracks or if they should be the same subject wide tracks because it's the same themes. But maybe different tracks are good because the same theme can be supported through different mechanisms? If they are all one track, then multiple notes in the track reference the same theme but hold different data talking about different mechanisms? Or, is the data going to be similar or actually the same, despite the discovery mechanisms (rational inference, prior belief clash, inference on character development, gap perception)?

--- [U282] ---
[Attached file: TLTT v2-definitions.md]

Please evaluate these revised definitions compared to the principles established throughout this conversation

--- [U284] ---
I feel like Technology and World Law are genuinely only allegories. They don't have analogies. They are fantasy invented. This is contrasted with Civilizational System which is a direct analogy, inspired by real world governments like Fascism and social democracy.
And Bond is the only one with no analogy track? I don't imagine picking out specific things that TwiJack is referenced against. It's just canon moments and fanon shipping.