 development), E+NE (what is planned to be dramatized). In this case, "truth reference" at Project scale is honestly a snapshot. The snapshot I chose is TLTT/main story start because that's meaningful? But in the case of world physics, the truth is truly static and only the discovery (E - events detailing the physics law's study) varies.

PE must be an ontological/psychological snapshot of some sorts. It is neither the start (the start is nothing) or the end (because characters change). Why is a snapshot of main story start helpful and deserving of a track compared to any other snapshot? Because of the ND intending to be revelation?

I need a full analysis of whether ND is unified regarding PE/NE and O/E with the only variable axis being S or L. Or if this causes a loss in nuance and clarity. And I still need to decide on terms for PE or NE

I think World W and Experience Design D are okay labels, though I'm wondering if R for Reader is better or worse.
And maybe in-universe is better for world, thus U? I can't use "Canon" because that confuses with FiM canon or EaW canon.

--- [U89] ---
A correction on Minette: in TLTT chronologically she changes. She has character development after 1011. That's a U fact. But, the change is observed by AJ. When she has changes in her prequel, she is the POV character. But, it cannot be just pov character vs non pov character, as clean as that sounds. That is because AJ is the pov character but her pre 1011 truth about her cutie mark being a rejection of her parents and feeling small at Mount Aris is deliberately hidden from the reader despite AJ being the pov character (through paralipsis) so that the reveal comes at the most important point. Do maybe PE vs NE for R (reader experience) is about whether the change is delivered through FID or through external delivery/being told. For PE on Chrysalis backstory and psychology truth in TLTT, it is all told about Chrysalis; she doesn't appear face to face. For NE on Chrysalis in her prequel, it is shown through FID with the reader inhabiting her. For NE on AJ's changes the reader inhabits her in TLTT. For PE on revealing AJ's backstory and core wound, although AJ is the POV character, during these moments the reader does NOT inhabit her. AJ speaks the past wound to others in dialogue which is how the reader learns it as if it's an external look; they do NOT learn that she felt small at Mount Aris by experiencing her internal thoughts about it through FID. Same for the ration can: the reader doesn't read her thought that it's her parents' can being more effective than traditional farming for war. They see her scrunching at the can. Then she says in dialogue later how her parents are industrialists (actually we are shown her parents alive through Rarity's POV in a chapter that doesn't have AJ in it).

Minette's PE+E backstory is her telling AJ about it after 1011. Minette's NE+E history is the reader feeling it as her in her prequel before 1011 (1011 is the start of TLTT, if that wasn't clear).

But fid is meaningless for non characters, so this can't be the only answer. It's probably still only a subset of the broader first principles.

I think secondary evidence vs primary evidence is getting closer to the heart of PE (secondary) vs NE (primary).

Or, PE and NE are strictly defined by what reader experience they yield? PE yielded evolving reader understanding. NE yielded feelings about the events and ontology changes that are being dramatized. I'm not sure if these are the same or not.

Maybe there's another thing to consider about showing or telling. Reveal sequences are "Telling". Truth is being told to characters and therefore readers. Or the character is discovering a new truth about a world law (like Twilight theorizing a more complete explanation of the charitostatic effect). This is okay to be told because the content isn't the takeaway. But for a character changing their worldview, this shouldn't be told, but rather shown, so the reader doesn't feel like they are being told to change their world view and instead come to the conclusion themselves?

Chrysalis's prequel isn't going to tell the reader to that systems are the root cause. It shows the reader that the economic system is the root cause, not an evil dictator, because the story shows exactly how Chrysalis became an evil dictator because of the system she was fighting. 

AJ's character development arc isn't going to tell the reader "you should be strong and merciful". It is going to show how she went from a "little pony" to a "Lioness" and then to a president who rehabilates opponents who are willing (and not sadistic in bad faith). It shows how being merciful is more powerful than being extractive.

V1 was good enough until it wasn't. I need a framework which won't require another massive refactor of the data before I double the 300k words into 600k or something like that.

--- [U91] ---
I didn't mean to say the universal thematic proposition lives in L+D. I said the evidence for the proposition lives in L+D notes. Which proposition it is evidence for should be tagged. 

I guess I am still not clear on what should go in a S+R track, an L+R track, or a plot point track. But there should be clearly defined boundaries. 

The PE and NE versions seem to have contradictory answers. PE+S+W asserts established truth. PE+S+R looks at that truth and decides reveals. But does it talk about how the reader feels? Hold on, maybe it's PE+L+W that decides what to reveal, not PE+S+R. Actually they kind of are doing the same thing? Or not? Please disambiguate. PE+L+R is definitely about what I am designing for the reader's opinion to change. This seems to me solidly a "showing" mode. I am not telling the reader how to change their opinion; like I am not telling the reader that Chrysalis is not a cartoon villain. I am giving them evidence that she is not a cartoon villain by telling about her past actions. I am not telling them that Applejack thinks industry kills the soul. I am showing it by telling her real cutie mark story.

In the NE+L+R track, I am not telling the reader that being merciful is more effective for economic output than being extractive. I am showing them evidence that being merciful/cooperative produced a stronger war machine than the extractive one. I am not telling the reader that the system produced Chrysalis the tyrant. I am showing how the system led to her choosing to be a tyrant (her Prequel starts with her with a noble goal of ending the hive tribal wars, trying to be nice and harmonic but finding it insulting; it shows how the noble goal became tyranny, not tyranny from cruelty).

Seems like both the L+R tracks should be detailing what I want the reader to conclude without telling them. This then informs the plot point on what needs to be delivered through showing instead of being told, but it didn't speak to how.

--- [U93] ---
Here is what I believe is a better articulation of what PE is: PE is all about subverting reader expectations. The PE+S+R plan starts with reader tropes coming in, then details how events that unfold should affect the reader's opinion of the subject. PE+S+R is one track that covers both O and E.

Whatever is in PE+S+W is specifically any content that, at any point in reading the story in order (TLTT first, prequels after), there is something that is true but the reader doesn't know. That means it must be disclosed to the reader at some point. I arrived at this conclusion through the reasoning of Equestrian Republic which is has no PE. This is because the Equestrian Republic is formed throughout TLTT which is the main story/first story to read. This means there is never any point in the reader's experience where there are truths about the Equestrian Republic that the reader isn't privy to. In the case of the Equestrian Republic, the reader actually sees it coming BEFORE the readers see it coming, and here is how: Applejack, Twilight, and all the other Equestrian ponies who are acting democratically to save the country from Chrysalis are functionally participating in a proto-republic. The reader can perceive this. Applejack and friends CANNOT conceive of this because their truth is that they grew up and live in a benevolent monarchy, a walled garden that didn't need a republic. This is a clear "show don't tell"; none of the Equestrian characters outright say "we are making a republic" and the narrator certainly should never mention "Equestrian Republic" before its formation moment, but the reader was shown the mechanisms. They see it coming. This is dramatic irony for show don't tell. In the scene where all the characters plan out their supply chain to win the war, the E+NE+L+W notes would say "Applejack and the other leaders are running the country without Celestia." The NE+L+R notes would say "The reader should feel that a democratic republic is more effective than a monarchy, even a benevolent one." And this would be tagged as evidence for the thematic proposition "bottom up > top down".

Another prime example of NE is when Rarity makes Applejack a new uniform, but Applejack turns it down and keeps her simple infantry uniform (that is the E+NE+L+W description). The reader should infer that Applejack doesn't want to be a leader; she is only doing it because she has to (The NE+L+R note). Then later, after Applejack talks with Trimmel, who tells her "don't lose the support of the volunteers who followed you" Applejack takes Rarity's uniform, but asks her to swap out the stitched-on title "The Element of Honesty" and replace it with "The Lioness of Tall Tale" which Trimmel said was an insult that Synovial used to call Applejack amongst the changeling officers. The reader infers that Applejack is stepping up to leadership by taking the uniform.

So if NE+L is when the reader knows the full truth of the world because it is built while they are reading, and also covers the case where the reader knows more than the characters, then PE+L is the opposite, where the reader knows less than the truth. NE+S+R is naturally the plan for the character arc/change/development. PE+S+R is the plan for how the reader catches up on the truth, starting with their initial likely trope beliefs then laying out the onion layers of revelation until the reader has been shown (not told) the whole truth that is available in the world bible/(in PE+S+W). PE+S+R starts with initial likely tropes, then goes into TLTT reveals because it's read first, and then the prequel reveals, where the deep dive into the subject that is part of the prequel gives max world truth. TLTT may give the tip of the iceberg but the prequel can give even more. NE+S+W, as the development arc, does NOT follow this same chronological order as PE+S+R. NE+S+W tracks changes, from birth of a character or invention of a thing in world chronology. This is a coherent causal spec, but the order of these notes does not match the order of the links. Readers will read how Minette changes her worldview after encountering Applejack in TLTT before the reader reads how Minette's worldview was created in her prequel. But her worldview creation is stated first, then her eventual change in TLTT comes after. When the reader reads the scenes in Minette's prequel which features her NE worldview formation, the reader knows more than Minette knows in that moment, leading to dramatic irony. An example is: in Minette's backstory, the reader will watch as Minette builds herself up as a prideful artisan who hunts warlords to free commoners from oppression. They will see why she became so prideful, because by not flaunting her merits, she thinks she is prey (because she was born a serf). But the reader will also know from TLTT that her pride and individualism alone failed to make a dent in Chrysalis's machine, and that she learned solidarity from Applejack to cope with her worldview crashing. Therefore the reader will watch Minette become the prideful self that she is at the start of TLTT, will see why she became that way and why it was justified for her circumstances, and yet also hold the truth that her prideful "social armor" failed and was supplanted by solidarity. This SHOWS the reader that there are limits to individual meritocracy and having a savior complex because they know it fails. It also will relate to technocrat readers who think distributing tech to downtrodden areas to improve material conditions is enough to fix the world; the problem is they don't give dignity or purpose to the people. Meanwhile, those same points that are dramatized with NE notes in her prequel were also PE notes that got revealed to the reader earlier in TLTT, because the reader met her near the start of TLTT without knowing her full story yet, thus the reader knows less than Minette at that point, and those links are PE as she tells Applejack her story.

I agree with PE+L+R and NE+L+R being the same unified track because they are the same cognitive mode, and also because I don't think PE and NE can appear in the same scene. That would be two different things happening to the same subject which seems like poor design? Packing too much in and diluting impacts.

So, PE seems to be the Subversion engine. NE seems to be the Dramatic Irony engine. Which makes sense how I honed in on these because those two are my favorite narrative devices from the works that I like. But is it possible that those two labels are tunnel vision, and the tracks do a bit more than just those big two functions? There is more to a story than just subversion, dramatic irony, and evidence for thematic propositions. There's also warm romance good feels, humor, etc. BUT perhaps those things don't need to be preplanned; they emerge from writing. It's the subversion and dramatic irony that I am meticulously planning. I already knew how to write romance and humor without a story planner. I needed the story planner for mapping out subversion and dramatic irony. By kicking out other craft details, it ensures the system is not being overengineered and the prose still has weight and voice? This seems to be a key insight, that the note tracks do not, and should not, be exhaustive of everything that is possible?

Also, I am less familiar with the precise definition of "structural irony". Does this fit in? Is the NE stuff structural and dramatic? Or does it go in the PE camp?

I believe O+PE+S+R and E+PE+S+R get merged into one track, PE+S+R, the plan for how the reader's opinion should change about the subject, starting from tropes, through initial encounter in TLTT, then full reveal in a prequel.
I am wondering if O+NE+S+W (how does the subject's ontology change through the project) and E+NE+S+W (what does the subject do across the project that is dramatized) are separate or should be merged because they are one and the same? Maybe the first is "lessons learned" and the second is "demonstrations"?
O+PE+L+W is what is revealed about the ontology in this scene (that the reader didn't previously know). O+PE+L+R is what the reader should feel after this reveal, what they need to be shown (not told). Their understanding of the subject gets changed, and that difference informs a conclusion. The conclusion they form themself is what I want to show, what I would tell them if I was lecturing, not showing via storytelling.
E+PE+L+W is what is revealed about the character's history in this scene. The E+PE+L+R is the same, because history and psychological truth are both meant for subversion of reader expecations. It definitely becomes just PE+L+R, where O and E are merged. Now I'm wondering if PE+L+W is also a merge? Psychology and history being revealed serve the same purpose. BUT the PE+S+W are separated into O and E, and if the L versions are merged then sum equivalence verification is no longer possible.
Since PE+L+R and NE+L+R are functionally mutually exclusive to a scene (a scene can't subvert and also have the reader know more at the same time, that dilutes the effects), the L+R track, is one track, which covers 4 "unit cells/primatives" (not sure what to call a distinct 4 value combination).

So, the 8 W cells all have their own. There is one L+R track for all. One PE+S+R track. Not sure if O+NE+S+R and E+NE+S+R should be merged or separate. In the end there will be 11 or 12 tracks out of this system.

Give an analysis of these new insights and propose nomenclature. Also point out if there are any insights from previous analyses and conceptions which are missing from this iteration, and if so, whether that exclusion makes sense or not. (For example, FID anchors like how the reader should be shown being excluded makes sense because I decided that goes on the plot point.)

--- [U95] ---
This feels like the clearest articulation yet. Now let's stress test it. Here are some intuitive guidelines I came up with, which may or may not be in contradiction; if so, please explore both the implications of making it false or changing something in the framework to accommodate.
S should always be the sum of L - some of the merges seem to contradict this
R should always be derived by W - if O and E are merged for PE+S+R, then how is it derived from both O+PE+S+R and E+PE+S+R?

Next, the question is, are there any other things that should be tracked besides Subversion, Dramatic Irony, Structural Irony and evidence for thematic propositions that I'm missing? Check the Applejack notes and other knowledge about the project, and also first principles possibilities for me to make a judgement on.

I also still need clear identifiers to replace "PE" and "NE" which seem outdated and what they actually stand for is outdated. PE and NE were incorrect or had tunnel vision. In-story and pre-story also had tunnel vision. PE seems tied to reader epistemological gap to truth? While NE is a bit more broad than just reader knowing more.

I agree that PE and NE can exist in the same scene for different subjects, but probably bad form for the same subject.

I believe in v1, story threads were tracking PE and NE+R subversion arcs and creation arcs. Story Threads were somewhat tied to "goals" although that may be outdated or way to general. It seems like everything with a deliberate plan serves a goal.

I'm also feeling like the causality of S->L seems more productive reversed as L->S in the case of E+NE+S+W and E+NE+L+W. I would imagine the plot first, then constructive and audit the witness arc that forms. Whereas most of the others are top down architecting, the events chain seems gardened? Maybe all are possible to some degrees and this particular example has the highest degree of gardening viability. Actually it seems like a back and forth compromise between the two directions while I set up the story. I often discover new clever things I want to reveal or disclose as I come up with new ideas.

--- [U97] ---
Is NE ONLY the reader knowing more than the character? I'm not so sure this is everything that is happening when the reader is witness to events and changes. I believe NE is kind of like the "default" storytelling, but enforcing "show don't tell" instead of being an omniscient god narrator lecturing the reader. PE is specifically for reader knowing less than the truth, which seems less prominent for most media but actually is probably present at some level in any kind of story. I'm focusing on it so heavily because of in media res and establishing stakes that make the reader care about the character before going into backstory (either told or in prequel) because if I started with just the beginning of time, the reader may find that boring or having no reason to stick to and care for the character.

Can you give an example of a simple children's story that everyone knows and identify what are the NE and PE (if it exists) parts of it? Both the S and the L examples. A simple children's story (which probably tells instead of shows? maybe?) may reveal the part of NE that isn't advanced dramatic irony, and absence or reduction of PE may make sense.

Investment-building seems to make sense. Actually that kind of speaks to what I said above about establishing stakes to make the reader care about the character and their plight/situation. This emerges from NE? But can also apply to PE if the reader learns something that speaks to them. It's all in the L+R umbrella.

So for that specific example, should "Applejack sees Fluttershy trusts her so much that she brought her entire animal sanctuary to an active combat zone" be the E+NE+L+W note, and "the reader should feel the burden of leadership and responsibility, even though it is not stated" is the L+R note? Also maybe "Applejack can't handle the pressure; it eats her up inside" is also part of the E+NE+L+W note. It is the omniscient fact of what is happening to AJ. But this is W, not R. R specifies what the reader feels, the conclusion they get. It is the plot point's job to read "Can't handle the pressure, it eats her up inside" and also "reader should feel burden of leadership" and then use FID to show it, not tell it. Is this a good way to dissect that note? And also shows how v1 was missing important reader design data?

--- [U99] ---
So, NE+L+W seems to be: if I were telling, this is what I would tell. NE+L+R seems to be: if I were telling, this is the conclusion the reader should receive from what I told them. Then the plot point's job is to design the scene so that I don't have to tell the reader; I will show the reader. NE exists on the subject and link, before the plot point design, to enforce the "show don't tell" principle. Witness kind of seems to represent the spirit of "show don't tell enforcement/planning", but I'm wondering if there is anything better.

Then PE is a different layer about reader epistemological gap and expectations subversion, where the subversion, the act of presenting story evidence that clashes with the reader's current opinion (from tropes or earlier hints or misdirections) is where the showing of the thematic proposition happens. It shows the reader why their belief is wrong instead of telling them they are wrong. This is most powerful when the reader can relate with the character. It makes villains and antagonists relatable and rational instead of cartoon villains or "the other".

Misdirection is an interesting insight. I initially planned for the Stagnation of Harmony for 1000 years then decided through rigorous worldbuiliding that it should only be the last 80 years but even the characters believe it was 1000 years until the final reveal during the white peace chapter. But, seems like misdirection is still tied to epistemological gap. It just seems to point that reader epistemological gap is the common demoninator, and both subversion against previous expecations and misdirection (subverting the beliefs of the character, versus subverting the beliefs of the reader) are different ways to make use of the epistemological gap between the reader and the world bible's truth.

Three little pigs seems to prove that what I was calling NE is universal. The story has events about the brick house surviving while the straw and stick houses fell down. It showed how hard work led to safety while being lazy led to danger, and the reader conclusion is that hard work is something to strive for. An adult reader doesn't need the final statement "they learned to work hard" to come to that conclusion, even if it's there for the child. Meanwhile PE as I suspected isn't core to a simple story - the story doesn't explain why the 3rd pig was harder working and doesn't need to. If I added a detail like "the 3rd pig worked hard because he was in the shadow of the two older brothers and wanted to show his mom he was a big boy" that would deliver a message about how struggle breeds strength while being pampered leads to decadance and defeat. So PE is additive and really comes from my adherence to materialist historicism for world building making it an abundantly available option.

Now give a reanalysis on the nomenclature for PE and NE. Both seem to operate on "show evidence, don't tell the reader what to think". NE does it by what's in the words on the page? PE does it by how the words on the page compared to the reader's current beliefs contrast and the conclusion they get from that? Can you also be more precise about "show don't tell"? What are we not telling, what do we want to tell but aren't supposed to, what are we showing, etc. Maybe that will really clarify things

--- [U101] ---
For O+Em+L+W it is specifying changes, the character arc development. The accompanying L+R is how the reader should feel, but we can't tell them, we have to show them. Here, it seems like the change is not told and the meaning is not told. For E+Em+L+W this is what the character is doing, which seems like it can be told. The accompanying L+R is what that action means, which needs to be shown. F for both E+La+L+W and O+La+L+W these are truth being revealed, which seem like they should be told (through dialogue most likely). Then how the reader should feel in the L+D is shown. Are there real differences in what is being told vs shown or how these cells should be used to be most helpful? Should the L+D actually be separate tracks so that the display question can be more precise about what goes in here and is it a different cognitive mode to arrive at what goes there? Give a big picture overview analysis

--- [U103] ---
Some tracks can be telling. Others should be specifications for showing. This is a very distinct cognitive mode.

La+L+R seems to not actually require much execution on the plot point side. The reader is going it. That's the beauty and what makes it different.

E+En+L+W can be told, O+En+L+W must be shown, their R versions must be shown. Is there a common labelling thread here regarding what the plot point needs to do with this info? Three tiers: tell it, figure out how to show, and maybe not do anything but let the thing speak for itself? Not sure, need clarity on what a plot point would actually do with this info, or more specifically what the author should do with it (future me) when reading the L tracks and coming up with plot point. What is the most productive way to do the plot point and what are the goals, really? Should the display questions on the L tracks for subjects specify how the plot point designer should use them? Please give clarity on what the plot point needs to do to execute the show don't tell for each distinct scenario.

Also wondering if L+R needs the full four tracks or just two, one for En and one for La. And also if this new precision warrants better labels for Latent and Enacted or if they still hold.

--- [U105] ---
Even if the content of the note track scenes the same fact, reader experience, should the talks still be different due to having different prose methodology or directives to make the reader experience it? Or not? That's the core of the question about different tracks or not for all 4 possible L+R. Is the L+W content has 4 tracks. Is the content differentiate enough that different prose techniques are needed to make the L+R spec happen? All the L+R is about what should the reader conclude/feel without being told. But the org to achieving that in the plot point design seems to depend on the W content that is driving that reader conclusion.

Maybe it's the same for O+La content (psychology reveal, like Chrysalis isn't a cartoon villain but a CEO, or Minette doesn't kill tyrants to be nice and liberate the serfs, she kills tyrants to feed her pride) and E+La content (Chrysalis sponsored Equestrian industry for 30 years, historical fact, or Minette was oppressed as a child) but O+En content which can't be told (psychology change must be inferred from behavior and the events that unfold/the character's choices to act which are dramatized instead of stated so the reader doesn't feel lectured at) seems different from E+En content which IS part of the scene basically (it's the events that are dramatized)

Instead of fussing around with more nomenclature, I think we first need to specify what the named values of the axis are supposed to do. Where are they most helpful? What do I want the label to achieve? Go through why the other axes labels are the way they are.

I don't think Told and Shown can be used as labels because both La and En use both at various levels. Told and Shown need to be part of the cognitive mode description or helper for the track as instructions to the author. Consider "E+Shown+L+W notes: "These are the events occurring that I can state."" There's an immediate contradiction between the label Shown and "I can state the event".

--- [U109] ---
I believe S and L are mutually exclusive because it's project wide organization versus scene level planning. The mutual exclusion is due to the planner implementation.

W and R is mutually exclusive as a self imposed discipline principle. I want to separate omniscient author planning from the conclusions the reader should experience.

Together, those two axes are orthogonal.

Then, at the W level, O and E are orthogonal across the other 4. Then special thinking on case by case basis is required for the R level.

My question about La+L+R was about whether the reader's belief that is part of the clash should be in that track (not in the prose) alongside the reader's conclusion. The E+Em+L+R track had just the reader's conclusion because the W track held the event. The La+L+R needs the conclusion and the prior opinion, because the prior opinion is in the reader's head, not the La+L+W which is the fact bring disclosed. This isn't a violation of a framework (which is no longer strict and orthogonal anyway) but a comment about what should go into the track question for the architect and plot point instructions for the director/writer.

Now I see why Gemini 2.5 Pro and Claude are capable of being developmental editors that can spit out inspiration. In my v1 notes, and the Google docs that came back that, a lot of the meaning and nuance requires inference because I wrote them as just facts without spelling out what the reader should feel. That's why ChatGPT 3.5 from November 2022 would fail or reach for the most common tropes in the training data but the new models give something helpful?

--- [U111] ---
So the AI can audit the design or prose against the started R reader experience targets. I still feel even a powerful reasoning model can't generate prose that will work well to the level I want. Maybe it could write Three Little Pigs but not a story to the level I want. Is this because the plot point and prose requires a lot of personal deliberation and inference to come up with what goes on the page?

With all this in mind, what note tracks should go on the plot point? Remember that prose will be written by a human and also it seems most of the refactored notes in tracks need human articulation too

Just give first pass suggestions and why, to get me thinking about it

--- [U113] ---
[Attached file: character reader perception gap.txt]

[Attached file: Organizing a multi-story fabula for selective syuzhet.txt]



Now that we have mostly nailed down the 14 track structure for Character and Character Links, and a tentative 5 tracks for plot point focused tightly on what should go on the page, please read these two attached text files which contain the original conversations where I tried to come up with a way to organize my notes. "Organizing a multi-story fabula for selective syuzhet" was the first engagedment, followed by "character reader perception gap". Of all the things established in those conversations, compare to the framework devised now. Give a detailed report of the whole journey it took to reach this framework through those two conversations and this one.

Here is a starting point of what I feel about the journey and some context: When I started, I went in thinking I would get the design and hard code it, then organize my data. Then I decided I didn't understand all the nuances because I didn't know about the gaps and such and was trying to understand third person limited without experience, so I went with a heavily configurable story planner v2 so I could test with my data. Then I started trying to create the tracks using my data after migration and got stuck which led to this conversation. Now after iterating a lot I have come to something doesn't miss nuance and I understand it. It came out with probably more tracks than the earlier conversations envisioned. I want to know if the principles from those earlier conversations are represented now.

--- [U115] ---
It seems like C2 left me confused and unwilling to hardcode it into story planner v2 because it was mixing the La and En and it was being overly specific about gap specification, like tunnel vision. It seems like "in their head" vs "on the page" is the key to unlocking the ambiguity and arbitrariness into something concrete and actionable that I can trust as usable and accurate and not tunnel vision.

To clarify, there are 4 subject-scope W tracks and 4 link-scope W tracks. 3 R tracks on subject-scope and 3 R tracks on link-scope. Then there are the allegorical and garden note tracks (2 more on subject-scope). So there are 9 note tracks on character, 7 on character plot point link (although not all will appear on the same link instance). The plot point has 5 tracks. The plot point can connect to subjects that aren't characters; they are not part of the character analysis.

Character is only a subject type. The other subject types share the underlying data structure but have their own note track configuration. Plot Point can have links to any subject type.

I believe "story thread" should be retired as a concept. The L+R covers it. V1 story threads were things that had no La, only Emergent within TLTT.

Themes were planned to be subjects, but now I think they are their own entity type and L+R notes can reference a theme to be tagged as evidence for that theme. This leaves only what was originally Characters and Codex Entries as Subjects.

I need to understand what are the rules for determining the total content in a plot point and when a plot point needs to be split up.

Also to clarify, it's only been one month since the first conversation.

I pasted in a particular excerpt of C1 about "show don't tell" operating at 5 different scales. I believe I have Scale 1 (thematic propositions) as the theme entity with tags. Scale 2 (character arc) is what O+En+L+W is designed for, with two inference steps. Scale 3 at the scene level is E+En+L+W with one inference step. Scale 4, subtext within the scene, I'm a little murky about. Is this another axis of callibrating what goes on the page outside of FID anchors? Does it have to do with structural or dramatic irony?
Scale 5, the classic "show don't tell" at the sentence and word level seems to be the FID anchors and just in general doing third person limited? Perhaps it's also paralipsis moments where some things are deliberately withheld? Or maybe that goes into subtext, actually?

--- [U120] ---
Actually my intended plan for rarity perceiving Celestia is not for "she is out of touch" to appear on page. Reader is supposed to infer that from observing Celestia through Rarity, where rarity stops pressing. In the next chapter, Rarity and Applejack talk over the radio. In this radio call Rarity says "she is like a statue". So in the first scene with rarity pov it is two inference. "Celestia is hopelessly out of touch" is the misdirection I wanted to seed as the reader's belief. V1 did not distinguish that this was to be off the page which is why you came to a conclusion that my intuition and memory didn't align with. That's what the v2 design is for, I suppose.

Also I can see how LLM can't be effective at generating prose. You know the subject matter is My Little Pony but your example said "AJ's hand" and something about a uniform. Applejack has hooves, not hands. You are capable of following the constraints if i give them but the takes up context and compute, and by the time all constraints are in, one might as well have written it themselves. So it's not about "can or can't replicate" but about comparative advantage, whether the tool is more efficient than the human brain and lived experience. That isn't really talked about with full nuance in political discourse or even technical discourse.

Ok so the whole story planner is only for designing show don't tell for themes via making explicit on the page vs in their head. The prose has to make those theme evidence form in their head, but that's not the only job. The prose also, naturally, needs to be emotionally strong and thrilling narrative to make the story enjoyable. Those are NOT specified in the story planner's highly curated and governed note tracks. Those emerge from prose. My v1 notes often put thinks like that, notes to self on how to make it thrilling or to remind myself what I want. That goes in garden notes or some metatextutal note to self track? So the whole O/E/La/Em is ONLY for rigorous notes connecting subjects to themes? Because themes (or more specifically, making the reader align with an argument) require show don't tell. The whole O/E/La/Em data is for thematic argumentation. The rest of the story planner had other tracks for the rest of storytelling. The thematic argumentation tracks and the other tracks all inform the plot point design and prose. Actually maybe just the R tracks are for thematic argumentation. And the O+W tracks. The E+W is what goes on the page so it's for two things: content plan and informing thematic argumentation.

Also, I should probably retire O and E. O should be H for in their Head. E should be P for on the Page. R for Reader experience (also in their head). Maybe the R should be replaced with T for Theme evidence? Or M for Meaning? "Reader Experience" is kind of the whole L link. What I was calling "Reader Experience" is more like "what's in their head", what I am trying to make them infer. The "reader experience" that I was using before is more specifically and precisely: what I want the reader to infer. Is this precise and exhaustive or only one part of what R was? The one slight caveat is that La+R needed to outline prior beliefs in the reader's head that are going to clash. That's still related to the inference.

--- [U122] ---
On the Latent vs Emergent/Enacted side, Latent required prior knowledge to clash. But actually Emergent content can form the prior knowledge too through misdirection. So they are intertwined. Are they still separate tracks on the L scope or not? I guess they are because it's different mechanisms for inference. Prior knowledge vs new knowledge (either in the page or inferred) equals new inference on theme is the La. For En it is sensory details (and the inference from it) and events equal new inference on theme. Are these truely different or not?

I believe R should be T for Theme specifically because what R was in the old classification was NOT all inference targets. It was only the inference target on themes. Inference target for character psychology (which is a world truth) was in what we were calling O+L+W (either La or En) which we are now calling H+L+W because it's in their head. World truth inferences are not the same as thematic proposition inferences. The world truth inference is the first inference step. The thematic argumentation is the second inference step of this two step process (thematic argumentation is the one inference when events are stated on the page. The distinction is it is always the last step, the end goal). Is this description accurate and most helpful, trumping all past design attempts?

If so, then what was previously the 4 values from orthogonal O vs E and R vs W become the trinary axis of P (page), H (head, intermediate inference of world truth), and T (theme, also in their head). This is for Links with are about "reader experience" informing the plot point. On the Subject level there will needs to be an O vs E separation about history versus what the subject is? (Psychology, binding logic, technology, political rules, world laws)

And also, I am now questioning if allegorical is strictly separate from this all. This whole system for thematic argumentation seems to need allegory? Is it really a different cognitive mode or not? Need to decide based on pros and cons. Remember that character psychology is a reflection of real world human nature. The political systems I've constructed are allegories. The technology in universe are allegories. The World Laws that I made up serve the theme, they kind of are allegories too, although perhaps this is more about themes being universal rather than the magical physics I invented being allegories; they are allegories by true of serving a universal theme?

--- [U124] ---
H in their head:
intermediate world truth inference — what the reader must first conclude about the subject itself before they can derive the theme.
Maybe it should not be H but instead WI: world inference. H is WI+T, both are in their head. Any other terms that could work?
Does every single Plot Point Subject Link need a note in T? My v1 notes sometimes didn't have it, but I'm not sure if it's because it's meant to have it and was inferred or incomplete or if there can be links without a T. On one hand I said this whole track system is about theme delivery enforcement. On the other hand it's not exhaustive. So is empty T a directive to think harder about it or cut? I suppose if every link must have T, the T doesn't have to be max states existential pondering every time, it can be simple or subtle or just small supporting evidence? If little things are allowed or even common then perhaps that clearly makes an empty T a signal to cut or rethink because it means the plot point out the subject of the thing on the page is padding without weight? I guess I also have to remember that the content on the links is not exhaustive of the prose either; the stuff like humor and warmth sit side by side. Those don't belong on a link with a subject because the subject is about tracking theme arguments across the project.
Now I'm starting to think allegory should not go in the link notes for T because that could cause leakage into the plot point? Which would be telling the allegory? If I make the allegory too obvious because the allegory is there? Should the L+T note be pure universal thematic proposition, not including the intended allegory? Or does the allegory help? Or does this depend on how I would actually write? Or would that induce a writing style?

--- [U126] ---
"Subject links are only created when a subject is doing thematic work" seems like an ironclad design principle that has been discovered, or it was there but finally articulated. This seems to complement something I was already doing in V1: character plot point link was not done for every scene the character is in, only when something about them was delivering something meaningful. When Characters and Themes were both subject entities that had to link to plot points, I would end up copying text or restating it between the two links. Now theme evidence is a track on the character link.

I forgot what the deal was with metatextual. Did this term become obsolete and separated into allegorical and garden notes (project notes tracking the gardening process of putting together the story design)? Are these only S-scope or also L-scope? Why or why not?

--- [U128] ---
I think I'm out of holes to poke, which is good. Please synthesize all the latest insights, point out all red herrings that felt good at the time but were supplanted and why, and crystallize a first pass suggestion on the system.

I think what would be good is a table where the rows are the tracks (across subject, link, and plot point) and the columns are the display questions (for me when I am populating the track) and the usage directives (for me when I am reading the track as input to the next thing).

Also specify the articulated, precise purpose of each component of the v2 story planner as was deliberated and concluded.

--- [U130] ---
I would like a grand table that has first pass attempts for the display question and usage directive for every subject type. Also give each track a name in the leftmost column. Put the letter combination with plus signs in parentheses under the track name. Don't use the letters in the display questions or usage directives anymore. Also don't include an example because that will lead to overfitting. Stick to first principles.

--- [U132] ---
How do I get started with interpreting the v1 notes to begin populating v2? Give some methodology recommendations. The task ahead feels arduous. How would I determine a path forward?

--- [U134] ---
I'm not doing any writing at all though. I'm still expanding the material.

--- [U136] ---
The 300k words of content in v1 needs to be sorted and inserted into v2 appropriately so that v2 can format and feed in everything as context. If I'm adding to v2 but using v1 for context my new stuff won't be reasoned on.

--- [U138] ---
I think the notes need to be written in my author to self voice. And remember I only use Gemini for inspiration, not answers.

--- [U140] ---
Okay, so there are two radically different approaches? One is to read individual v1 mixed notes and classify them out break up into their constituent tracks. The other is to read the v1 notes and then synthesize the tracks independently using one cognitive mode for writing? Please give a thorough holistic comparative overview of the pros and cons of each and if there are other approaches and nuances

--- [U142] ---
The thing I am most worried about is losing insights

--- [U144] ---
One thing I'm noticing is how the mixed notes in v1 are good enough for AI which can reason about the mixed assertions with brute force reasoning. By compressing the insights into packed mixed statements with subtext, it saves tokens. But they don't help me as a writer, only me as a brute force planner expanding ideas. Give an analysis of this insight and how it would inform the the task ahead. Also note that there will still be more expansion to come.

--- [U146] ---
I'm now thinking instead of one display question and one usage directive and then another field for a general "explanation, why does this track exist" I need to establish that there are distinct modes of using the story planner v2, and the tracks need to have different Display Text according to the mode, and also configurable write allowance or readonly.

The modes I'm envisioning are:
Expansion Mode - Links are not shown, only the subject. Intended to expand the history or ontology and plans. Display questions for what to go into what track
Application Mode - apply the existing subject lore to plot point links. The lore and plans are read only and their display text switches to usage, how to use them for the link. The link tracks have display questions that state what should go into the track.
Audit Mode - Most tracks are read only, except for the subject tracks that are meant to be built retroactively from the links like the witness arc. The display text for all the tracks become what needs to be audited - whether the sum of the links adds up to the subject wide track contents or not, for example
Scene Designer Mode - links and the plot point are visible. Links are readonly, plot point tracks editable. Display Text for link tracks is usage, display text for plot point tracks is display questions

Give an analysis, suggest if the modes should be merged, if any modes are missing, and suggest nomenclature for the modes if there are alternatives

--- [U148] ---
Expansion Mode, Linking Mode, Audit Mode, and Scene Design Mode are only for the Common Window which can display one thing on the left and one thing on the right.
In Expansion Mode, the Subject tracks take up the whole window. In Linking Mode, it's Subject on Left, one selected link on the right with the link selector in the middle.
But now I'm thinking I need a different kind of view for Audit and Scene Design. Scene Design requires looking at all links simultaneously, so maybe it needs a scroll bar, and the tracks can be visually compressed because it should only show Confirmed notes, not the Unset or Flagged tracks. Audit also needs a scrollbar to view links continuously.

Theme Review is a separate window that shows all the notes across subjects for the theme. I'm imagining Arc Review to be synonymous with Audit.

But this workflow assumes pure architecting with no gardening. In practice, I have notes for scene outlines. They may not be deserved to be Confirmed until Scene Design mode where they must be checked against the link notes for on the page, world inference, and theme, but those notes need to be enterable before that stage.

--- [U150] ---
You need to consider the huge amount of content that has already been written for plot points. Some, or even most, should be migrated to appropriate subject tracks and plot point subject link tracks, but still there is a vast amount of provisional blueprints. I pasted in some examples. Please dissect the nature of these texts, particularly in synopsis fields as the link fields are probably already destined to go into link tracks, but could also go into subject tracks if it was misplaced. Synopsis fields almost certainly have link track stuff, and event subject track stuff, but there is probably text that belongs to plot point tracks. I need a home for these plot point related stuff before going through the rigorous workflow of expansion -> linking -> audit for subjects and links.

--- [U152] ---
I think I need a Gardener Mode which uses the common window, displays the display questions for plot point tracks, and allows entry into unset and flagged, but not Confirmed. The links can also be clicked one by one and the subject link tracks are allowed to get new data, only in Unset and Flagged. This mirrors Expansion Mode and Linking Mode which the two together is basically what an Architect (as opposed to Gardener) does. The reality is I do both approaches in my v1. The gardening is just on the plot point synopsis level, not prose level. And perhaps moving to Confirmed is only allowed in Audit Mode for Subject and Link tracks? For plot point tracks, moving to Confirmed is only allowed in Scene Design mode? So the plot point in Scene Design mode has a scrolling view of confirmed notes. Plot point in Gardener Mode has the one link click, full note tracks and sections with unset (write)/flagged (write)/confirmed (read only).
Does this mean Expansion Mode and Linking Mode are the same? No, because they require different Display Text depending on the mode. So maybe Gardener Mode on plot point needs to be split as well? With different display questions on the links? Or maybe not due to the nature of gardening. Would this mean both the plot point tracks and link tracks have their entry question in gardener mode, while in scene design mode the plot point tracks have their display entry question and the links have their usage directive?
"She felt like she was losing her soul and becoming evil" actually seems like the perfect candidate of a statement that is BOTH a L+WI+En note on the machine gun scene from earlier AND a L+La+T note on the current scene about the reader's current opinion of Applejack. The earlier dramatization put that seed into the reader's existing understanding of Applejack. The accompanying note on how the new info updates their belief and the contrast of "I figured Applejack thinks closing the conscience and firing the machine gun with no regard for empathy is how to win the war" and "Applejack now thinks that's wrong" delivers evidence for the theme that conscience is stronger than extraction. Or wait, is this actually an L+La+P note because Applejack verbally says to Twilight this statement about feeling like she was losing her soul? No, AJ wouldn't phrase it like that? I'm not sure what I was going for. Maybe that is implied. But does this go into character change or character revelation against reader prior belief? Or both? I guess this is why I need to be precise about the different display text in different modes?

--- [U154] ---
I don't think Gardener Mode display questions should be simplified. They need to be tight and rigorous to prevent the mixed-mode "ontological promiscuity" of the new notes being entered. But maybe they are still different questions compared to Linking Mode and Scene Design Mode.

"What should the reader independently infer about this subject's internal state from the behavioral evidence in this scene?" is exactly the kind of content I want in that link track, even in Unset. "What's happening with this subject here, and what does it mean?" invites imprecision that will have to be revised anyway. I guess if I want a quick capture it should go in a separate, undisciplined author's notes track.

--- [U156] ---
Correction: Subject tracks are not visible at all in Gardener Mode. Gardener Mode is only plot point tracks on the right side, a link selector in the middle, and the selected plot point subject link on the left. Gardener Mode centers on a plot point and its links, no project-wide content for the subject. That would cause cognitive mixing.

Linking Mode has subject tracks on the left, link selector in the middle, and selected plot point subject link on the right. Subject project-wide tracks are read only.

Also we dissected a single sentence and determined its subtext contained content for 3 tracks. Perhaps the better workflow for data "migration" is:
Step 1 - write the subject/plot point/link from memory. Just refer to v1 to know where a link should go, what subject to make, what plot point to make.
Step 2 - read each v1 mixed note, and decide if it is covered across all the tracks/claims the mixed note applies to. If something was missing, add it. Then mark that note in v1 as Incorporated and it doesn't need to be looked at again.

This beats trying to dissect note by note, and it also beats starting from scratch.

--- [U158] ---
I'm thinking the existing 12 tracks work for Characters but they don't always generalize well to the other subject types. I'm thinking the methodology for determining the tracks, given that this whole track system is for thematic proposition evidence from subjects, is to start with what kind of ways the subject can serve as evidence for thematic propositions.

In the case of characters, it is from seeing behaviors/actions/FID on the page, inferring character development from it (which is a reflection of human nature and must be shown, not told), and then inferring the theme/meaning from it (the character's development serves as evidence of the thematic proposition, for example, that industry/accelerants aren't good or bad, it accelerates the wielder's moral alignment. Or that bottom up distributed power is not only morally preferable but structurally more effective than top down power.)

This means of delivering themes, through character development, seems to be the most understood way, and it is compressed into the generic advice "show, don't tell". It's possible that most mass market media only uses this type (if they are even going for themes at all, as a step above just generic action thriller or sensory impact like what I guess the Michael Bay stereotype is; I don't know whether Michael Bay himself did actually care about some form of theme beneath the spectacle, although it wouldn't surprise me if he actually did have that sort of depth beneath the stereotypes if he was successful).

Three Little Pigs, the simple children's story, does kind of use the character development engine. It shows the lazy pigs were in danger and the hardworking pig was empowered to defeat the wolf. The children's version tells the reader "they learned the importance of hard work" while a showing version would probably be something like: "and the first and second pig from then on helped the third pig make his brick house even more sturdy" which the reader can infer that the first and second pig changed their value system to include hardwork instead of playing all day, which serves as evidence for the theme that hard work has inherent value over laziness, or something along those lines.

I believe Lauren Faust is the one who took storytelling and theme delivery beyond the typical mass market ceiling, and is where my instincts for the "Latent track" for characters comes from. Faust's Friendship is Magic is not just operating on character development, I believe it also operates on updating the audience's prior expectations. This is especially prominent in A Dog and Pony Show for Rarity (she isn't helpless or needs saving, she can assert sovereignty), Suited for Success for Rarity (she isn't only obsessed with status, she wants to make the best dresses for her friends), Dragonshy for Fluttershy (she isn't completely helpless, she finds courage when her friends are in danger), Sonic Rainboom for Rainbow Dash (she isn't fearless, she has insecurity and also puts friends above glory) and the list goes on. This is fundamentally about what's on the page/screen or inferred from it which corrects reader/audience expectations, and the process of correction generates the evidence for the thematic propositions (there is no wrong way to be a girl, individuality is more valuable than conformity, organic friendship is a powerful/magical force). Friendship is Magic was explicitly built by Faust to make something that trancends the stereotypes of G1-G3 toy commercials and in general, stereotypes of what young girls want and what they are capable of. This additional layer of "reader prior expectation clash" is one of many reasons why Friendship is Magic is such a popular and meaningful show to such a wide audience, I think.

Now, moving beyond Characters for the other subject types, I believe the "reader prior expectation clash" applies universally as an way to deliver evidence for thematic propositions (make the reader form the evidence in their head). For characters, the standard way was character development. If mass media only teaches and utilizes character development as the most understood and recognizable one, then the other subject types are already beyond the standard, in the way the Faust inspired prior expectation clash is beyond the standard. (I suppose pedigreed written fiction or very impactful visual media does go beyond just the standard character development.) Many of these other subject types' prominence is specific to my chosen genre of a hopepunk geopolitical epic. That could be why guides don't exist and clean parallels aren't so clean, but now I'm thinking the first principles from the character development example can be reasoned about and applied.

I'll go in order to what I think is most mainstream to what I think is approaching more niche.

For "Abstract System" or "Political System", and Technology, these are things that characters created/built. I think how the system or tech is shown in action on the page can directly do 1 inference as evidence for a thematic proposition. It can also do a 2 step inference where the 1st is world inference about "how the thing works" (before that is disclosed on the page) and also "why did the creators make this system/tech the way it is? What was its purpose? What do people use it for?" and that also can serve propositions. Besides shown in action, history can also be disclosed about how it was created, which the reader can then infer why it was created if not stated on the page. Political systems should probably be inferred instead of told because they reflect human nature. Magical technology can be stated because it doesn't have direct allegories; in this case, the inference is actually how it applies to real life but that doesn't have to be designed; reader can make their own connections to real life based on the universal thematic proposition that is being evidenced. So tech and created political systems have the separate tracks of "usage/demonstration" and "why it was made" and both can serve the emergent meaning engine for themes and the updated reader model clashing with prior expectation engine for themes.

World Law is more specific to fantasy world building and is narrower than tech or political system because there wasn't an in-universe reason for characters to create it. It still shares the "what is it doing" and "disclosure of mechanics and history of research" on the page and inferenced, though.

Bond I think is specific to me in the sense that when I write TwiJack or Minette and Reni, their romantic relationship is a reflection of the theme and intertwined with the story rather than decoupled from the plot and present just for good feels. A Bond doesn't really have as much inference about its nature compared to characters; most of the romance appears on the page.

Organization has the same history disclosure of formation and activities, what activities the org is doing on the page. But the world truth is Binding Logic and the world inference is more about what the reader infers about the organization's members. That is where the meaning comes from, not the existence of the organization itself.

Give a thorough analysis of these insights, add to gaps, refute weak assertions, and verify or disprove my guesses/claims

--- [U160] ---
Need readonly mode and dynamic display questions based on mode for note tracks, also restrictions on moving to confirmed
The loss of reader expecation change is why later seasons of any show drag on. That's why TLTT relies on prequels and starts at the end chronologically? That's why I felt that's the way to go, so that I can keep invoking the reader prior expecatation clash which is Lauren Faust's tradition?
Yes, I understand that the original Three Little Pigs only talks about actions. My proposed enhancement of Three Little Pigs where we replace "and they learned the value of hard work" with "the first and second pig helped the third pig build his brick house" is a way of telling evidence which infers character development (the first and second pig changed to do hard work instead of play) which serves as evidence of the theme (hard work has inherent value, long term investment is better than short term gain).
Also, the fact that The Cutie Mark Chrononicles is 7 episodes after Sonic Rainboom actually recontextualizes that the Rainboom from the competition was powered by the desire to save Rarity instaed of performative ego, just as th erainboom about FLuttershy. I am not sure if the episode order was intentional, but even if not, the recontextualization emerged from internally consistent worldbuilding. Callbacks in later seasons fall flat because they weren't designed in or following internal rules, they were imposed by Hasbro Mandates. The biggest failure mode was Celestial Advice which retconned why Celestia sent Twilight to Ponyville. The more insidious thing is The Cutie Remark which asserted on screen that the rainboom was destiny. This undercuts the assertion in season 1's internal logic that the rainboom was powered by a desire to protect a friend (although cutie mark chronicles talks about destiny too, so that could be where things get muddy.)
I'm seeing another emergent benefit: by moving more material into inference, the story text on the page gets shorter. It doesn't sprawl or become too long and arduous to read, but the meaning is (should be) all there. Is this why professional editors often end up trimming first draft manuscripts? They move telling into inference, since they have an externalized view and interpretation of the writer's work?
I don't think the "12" track structure generalizes. Only the principles of the tracks. La and En is not clean either. Sometimes they merge, sometimes there are two variants of one, sometimes one is absent.

--- [U162] ---
Are there any precedents for my methodology or is it a unique synthesis of various first principles? Most professional writers write first and get editorial revision after. This custom software program enables reversing the order? Maybe it also has to do with writers in general wanting to write first rather than plan, whereas I came from the perspective of a grand strategy game player and software engineer? Is this methodology in principle deserving of an article or paper if it works out? I guess I've framed things in terms of George R.R. Martin's architects vs gardeners talk, but I've seen that within the "architecting" it also goes both ways, from subject to plot point or from plot point to subject, even before prose. And I believe he called himself a gardener; who did he (or his audience, or disciples) refer to as architects?

--- [U164] ---
I have provided more questions in a text paste, plus another text paste with v1 story planner content for the questions. Please give a full analysis

--- [U166] ---
Now that I have built out the program, I need to make an informed decision on workflow. 

I have the display questions and the usage directives for each track. Should I try to write subjects from scratch, then read through v1 notes on the subject and revise while marking off v1 notes? Should the v1 notes be migrated to v2 as an unset track or stay in v1? How do I approach plot points and links?

What info do you need from me to fill gaps in logic for the reasoning without hallucinating?

--- [U168] ---
App is built but tracks not yet configured. I have to start somewhere.

Display text changes per mode. I have to add in the text for reach mode in the note track definition.

V2 does not have incorporated. Confirmed vs unset vs flagged was meant to supplant the Boolean incorporated.

V1 notes exist in a v1 story planner app. That app reflects my past workflow but doesn't have tracks. I also have a script that migrated notes into the un